---
institution: National Institute of Science and Technology Policy Japan
institution_slug: nistep
institution_type: government_research_institute
content_type: report
source_completeness: full_text
english_title: "Digest of Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2023"
chinese_title: "日本科学技术指标2023摘要"
published_date: 2024-10-27
source_url: https://www.nistep.go.jp/en/?p=5453
pdf_url: https://www.nistep.go.jp/en/wp-content/uploads/NISTEP-RM328-SummaryE.pdf
pdf_status: 200 application/pdf
external_source_url:
authors: []
keywords: ["科技创新", "科技人才"]
subjects: []
topic_tags: ["科技创新", "科技人才"]
priority: P1
score: 8
translation_level: full_or_long
copyright_boundary: private_archive
fetch_status: detail_ok
---

# 日本科学技术指标2023摘要

## 中文摘要与研判

NISTEP《日本科学技术指标2023》提供日本科技活动的年度指标摘要，覆盖研发经费、研发人员、高等教育与科技人才、研发产出、技术贸易和创新活动等五类指标，并通过国际比较刻画日本科技体系的相对位置。该材料适合作为日本科技创新体系的时间序列基准，与2024、2025版共同形成连续观察链。

对后续专题研究而言，该报告的意义不只在单年数据，而在于其指标组织方式。研发投入、科研人员、博士培养、论文质量、专利族和技术贸易等指标可以作为上海和长三角科创能力评估的参照变量，用于识别投入结构、人才结构和产出转化之间的关系。

## 元数据

- 原始标题：Digest of Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2023
- 发布日期：2024-10-27
- 来源链接：https://www.nistep.go.jp/en/?p=5453
- PDF链接：https://www.nistep.go.jp/en/wp-content/uploads/NISTEP-RM328-SummaryE.pdf
- 关键词：科技创新, 科技人才
- 主题标签：科技创新, 科技人才
- 优先级：P1

## English Source Material

238 2015 Digest of Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2023 October 2023 Center for S&T Foresight and Indicators National Institute of Science and Technology Policy, MEXT Research Material-328 背厚：1mm This document is the English version of the executive summary of the “Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2023” which was published by NISTEP in August 2023. The English version was edited by Yumiko Kanda, with suggestions from Izumi Yamashita. 【Contributors】 KANDA Yumiko Research Associate, Center for S&T Foresight and Indicators, National Institute of Science and Technology Policy (NISTEP), MEXT NISHIKAWA Kai Research Fellow, Center for S&T Foresight and Indicators, National Institute of Science and Technology Policy (NISTEP), MEXT OKAMURA Asako Senior Research Fellow, Center for S&T Foresight and Indicators, National Institute of Science and Technology Policy (NISTEP), MEXT MURAKAMI Akiyoshi Senior Research Fellow, Center for S&T Foresight and Indicators, National Institute of Science and Technology Policy (NISTEP), MEXT IGAMI Masatsura Director, Center for S&T Foresight and Indicators, National Institute of Science and Technology Policy (NISTEP), MEXT Please specify reference as the following example when citing this NISTEP RESEARCH MATERIAL. “Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2023”, NISTEP RESEARCH MATERIAL No. 328, National Institute of Science and Technology Policy, Tokyo. DOI：https://doi.org/10.15108/rm328e Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2023 (ABSTRACT) “Science and Technology Indicators” is a fundamental resource for understanding Japanese science and technology activities based on objective and quantitative data. It classifies science and technology activities into five categories such as R&D Expenditure; R&D Personnel; Higher Education and S&T personnel; Output of R&D; and Science, Technology, and Innovation, and shows the state of Japanese science and technology activities with approximately 170 indicators. The report is published annually and offers the latest results of the analyses of scientific publications and patent applications conducted by the NISTEP. This edition of “Science and Technology Indicators 2023” includes new indicators such as “Comparison of female researchers by industry classification in Japan and Germany,” “Patent family analysis using 35 technology classifications,” “Trade volume and import partner countries/regions in Japan,” “Employed doctoral scientists and engineers by primary work activity in the U.S.,” and “Progress and disparities in digitalization.” Overviewing the latest Japan’s situation from “Science and Technology Indicators 2023,” the R&D expenditure and the number of researchers in Japan are the third -largest in major countries (Japan, U.S., Germany, France, U.K., China, and Korea). The rank of Japan in the number of scientific publications (fractional counting method) is the 5th in the world. The rank of Japan in the number of top 10% and top 1% highly cited publications is 13th and 12th. Japan is the world’s first place in the patent family (patent applications to more than two countries). Japan also maintains the number one position among major countries in terms of the trade balance ratio in medium-high R&D intensive industries. The number of joint research projects and the amount of research funds received by Japanese universities with private firms have been increasing over time. The ratio of indirect costs to direct costs is also growing. Blank page - 1 - 1. Japan's trends in key indicators Trends in key indicators for Japan are as follows. Japan’s ranking is generally the same as in the previous edition of the report, except for drops in the rankings for the number of researchers for “universities and colleges” and “public organizations” and the number of highly cited scientific papers. Although Japan ranks third or fourth behind the U.S., China, the UK, and Germany in many of the indicators listed, Japan’s growth in many of them are smaller than other selected countries. The data of R&D expenditures and R&D human resources have been revised for the U.K. and are being updated for China. Therefore, R&D expenditures of “business enterprises” and “universities and colleges” have increased for the U.K., while recent data have been withheld from publication by the OECD and not reflected to this report for China. In addition, the number of researchers at “universities and colleges” and “public organizations” in the U.S. was published by the OECD after nearly 20 years of unavailability , which caused the change in the ranking of the number of researchers in Japan. [Summary Chart 1] Japan's trends in key indicators Indicators Changes in Japan's ranking Japan’s figures Note R&D expenditure No. 3→No. 3 18.1T yen No. 1: U.S., No. 2: China Business enterprises No. 3→No. 3 14.2T yen No. 1: U.S., No. 2: China Universities and colleges No. 4→No. 4 2.1T yen No. 1: U.S., No. 2: China, No. 3: Germany Public organizations No. 4→No. 4 1.5T yen No. 1: China, No. 2: U.S., No. 3: Germany Number of Researchers No. 3→No. 3 705K No. 1: China, No. 2: U.S. Business enterprises No. 3→No. 3 529K No. 1: China, No. 2: U.S. Universities and colleges No. 3→No. 4 137K No. 1: China, No. 2: U.S, No. 3: U.K. Public organizations No. 3→No. 4 30K No. 1: China, No. 2: Germany, No. 3: U.S Number of scientific papers (fractional counting) No. 5→No. 5 71K No. 1: China, No. 2: U.S., No. 3: India, No. 4: Germany Number of adjusted top 10% scientific papers (fractional counting) No. 12→No. 13 3.8K No. 1: China, No. 2: U.S., No. 3: U.K., No. 4: Germany, No. 5: Italy, No. 6: India, No. 7: Australia, No. 8: Canada, No. 9: France, No. 10: Korea, No. 11: Spain, No 12: Iran Number of adjusted top 1% scientific papers (fractional counting) No. 10→No. 12 0.32K No. 1: China, No. 2: U.S., No. 3: U.K., No. 4: Germany, No. 5: Australia, No. 6: Italy, No. 7: Canada, No. 8: India, No. 9: France, No. 10: Spain, No. 11: Korea Number of patent families No. 1→No. 1 66K The trade balance ratios for high R&D intensive industries No. 6→No. 6 0.7 No. 1: Korea, No. 2: China, No. 3: Germany, No. 4: France, No. 5: U.K. The trade balance ratios for medium-high R&D intensive industries No. 1→No. 1 2.6 Number of cross-border trademark applications (Number of classes) No.5→No.6 121K No. 1: China, No. 2: U.S., No. 3: Germany, No. 4: U.K., No. 5: France Note: *: R&D expenditure is the cost of performing research and development work at a given institution, and is different from the science and technology budget. 1) The “Changes in Japan's rankings” compares the latest year and the previous year. The “Japan’s figures” is for the latest year. 2) Except for the number of papers and adjusted top 10% papers and the number of patent families, the rankings are within the following selected countries: Japan, the U.S., Germany, France, the U.K., China, and Korea. - 2 - (1) The growth of R&D expenditure in Japan's “business enterprises” and “universities and colleges” sectors is smaller compared to the other selected countries. The U.S. has the largest R&D expenditures in the sectors of “business enterprises” and “universities and colleges” among the selected countries. Both sectors have seen strong growth since the 2010s. China is also increasing its R&D expenditures. Japan ranks third among the selected countries in the “business enterprises” sector, but its growth has been moderate over the same period. In the sector of “universities and colleges” , Japan's R&D expenditure has remained almost flat since the 2000s, surpassed by China and Germany, which have grown rapidly since the 2010s. [Summary Chart 2] Nominal values of R&D expenditure by “business enterprises” and “universities and colleges” (based on OECD purchase power parities data) (A) Business enterprises Reference: Chart 1-3-3(A), Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2023 (in Japanese) (B) Universities and colleges Reference: Chart 1-3-13(A), Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2023 (in Japanese) 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 1981 85 89 93 97 01 05 09 13 17 2021 R&D expenditure (nominal values) Year Japan U.S. Germany France U.K. China Korea EU-27 ¥ trillions 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 1981 85 89 93 97 01 05 09 13 17 2021 R&D expenditure (nominal values) Year Japan U.S. Germany France U.K. China Korea EU-27 ¥ trillions - 3 - China has the largest number of researchers in the “business enterprises” and “universities and colleges” sectors among the selected countries. In the “business enterprises” sector, the U.S. and China are closely matched, with both countries showing rapid growth. The number of researchers in the “business enterprises” sector in Japan remained almost flat from the late 2000s, but has increased slightly since 2017. The number of Korean researchers i n the “business enterprises” sector has also been increasing over a long time. In the “universities and colleges” sector, Germany has seen an increase since the mid-2000s. Japan's growth has been moderate and has recently leveled off. [Summary Chart 3] Trends in the number of researchers in “business enterprise” and “universities and colleges” (A) Business enterprise Reference: Chart 2-2-4, Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2023 (in Japanese) (B) Universities and colleges Reference: Chart 2-2-11, Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2023 (in Japanese) 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 1981 85 89 93 97 01 05 09 13 17 21 Number of researchers 10,000 people 2022year Japan U.S. Germany France U.K. China Korea EU-27 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 1981 85 89 93 97 01 05 09 13 17 21 Number of researchers 10,000 people 2022year Japan U.S. Germany France U.K. China Korea EU-27 - 4 - (2) Although the percentage of female researchers in Japan is lower than that in other selected countries, the percentage of women among newly hired researchers has been increasing. The percentage of women among all researchers is the lowest in “business enterprises” in all the selected countries. The percentage of female researchers in Japan is the lowest in each sector compared to the other countries. In Japan, the percentage of newly hired female researchers tends to be higher than the percentage of women among all researchers regardless of the sector. [Summary Chart 4] Shares of female researchers of the selected countries by sector Reference: Chart 2-1-11, Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2023 (in Japanese) [Summary Chart 5] Newly hired researchers by gender in Japan Reference: Chart 2-1-17(A), Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2023 (in Japanese) 11.6 14.8 21.3 22.0 18.4 20.9 37.2 37.0 38.2 27.8 28.6 40.0 39.9 46.1 33.8 16.7 43.9 46.5 29.8 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 (2022) (2019) (2017) (2017) (2021) Japan Germany France U.K. Korea ％ Business enterprises Public organizations Universities and colleges Non-profit institutions Public organizations and Non-profit institutions 14.4 22.3 27.8 31.1 32.6 36.3 23.7 30.4 19.7 25.5 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 2013 ～ 2021 2013 ～ 2021 2013 ～ 2021 2013 ～ 2021 2013 ～ 2021 Business enterprises Public organizations Universities and colleges Non-profit institutions Total Ratio of the number of female researchers against the total Number of newly hired researchers 10,000 people Male researcher Female researcher Ratio of the number of female researchers against the total ％ - 5 - (3) Regarding the number of female researchers in business enterprises in the latest year, Japan and Germany have the highest number in the “food” and “professional, scientific and technical services” sectors, respectively. In terms of the number of female researchers in business enterprises, in Japan in 2022 there were 54,000 in the manufacturing industries and 15,000 in the non -manufacturing industries, both continuously increasing; a breakdown for 2022 shows that in the manufacturing industr ies the largest number of female researchers was in the “food manufacturing industry,” followed by “chemical products.” In Germany, the number of female researchers was 32,000 in the manufacturing industr ies and 14,000 in the non -manufacturing industries in 2019, both of which continued to increase; the 2019 breakdown shows the largest number was found in the “m otor vehicles and parts” sector for the manufacturing industries and in the “professional , scientific and technical services” sector for the non-manufacturing industries. [Summary Chart 6] Comparison of female researchers by industry classification in Japan and Germany ( A)Japan (B)Germany Note: The charts show actual head counts of researchers. The Japan chart shows the number of researchers as of March 31 of the given year. Reference: Chart 2-2-10, Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2023 (in Japanese) 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 10,000 people year ManufacturingNon- Manufacturing Information & communication Scientific research, professional & technical services Construction Other manufacturing Transportation equipment Information & communication electronics equipment Electrical machinery, equipment & supplies Electronic parts, devices, & electronic circuit Business oriented machinery Iron and steel Petroleum and coal products Chemical products Medicines Food 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 2019 10,000 people year Other manufacturing Other vehicle construction Motor vehicles and parts Mechanical engineering Electrical equipment Computer, electronic and optical products Fabricated metal products Pharmaceuticals Chemicals and chemical products Food products, beverages and tobacco. ManufacturingNon-manufacturing Information and communication Professional, scientific and technical services Other non-manufacturing - 6 - 2. Students and graduate students: situations in Japan and selected countries (1) Enrollment in Japanese graduate school doctoral programs peaked in FY2003 and has been on a long-term declining trend. The enrollment in Japanese graduate school master's programs peaked in FY2010 and began to decline, with a temporary increase. Then the number started to rise again after FY2020. In FY2022, there was a 1.9% increase compared to the previous fiscal year, with a total of 76,000 students. Additionally, the number of recurrent students enrolled in master's programs, which had been around 10% of the total, started to slightly decrease from FY2019 onwards. The enrollment in graduate school doctoral programs has been on a long-term downtrend since its peak in FY2003, totaling 14,000 in FY2022. Among them, the number of recurrent students enrolled in doctoral programs increased for a long time, but has been decreasing since FY2018. This number accounted for 41.7% of the total in FY2022. Looking at the composition by major, there has been a long-term increase in the number of students enrolled in “Others” in both the master's and doctoral programs.
