---
institution: Information Technology and Innovation Foundation
institution_slug: itif
institution_type: think_tank
content_type: article
source_completeness: full_text
english_title: "The National Economic Council Gets It Wrong on the Roles of Big and Small Firms in U.S. Innovation"
chinese_title: "美国国家经济委员会误判大企业与小企业在创新中的作用"
published_date: 2023-07-20
source_url: https://itif.org/publications/2023/07/20/nec-gets-it-wrong-on-roles-of-big-and-small-firms-in-us-innovation/
pdf_url: https://cdn.sanity.io/files/03hnmfyj/production/4a3f201d99bef48a261a9b35cca3708e81b05ce1.pdf
pdf_status: 200 application/pdf
external_source_url:
authors: ["Robert D. Atkinson"]
keywords: ["科技创新"]
subjects: []
topic_tags: ["科技创新"]
priority: P1
score: 4
translation_level: full_or_long
copyright_boundary: private_archive
fetch_status: detail_ok
---

# 美国国家经济委员会误判大企业与小企业在创新中的作用

## 中文摘要与研判

该报告反驳美国国家经济委员会关于“小企业才是美国真正创新者”的叙事。ITIF 认为，美国创新生态的优势在于初创企业、大企业、并购退出机制、规模化研发和市场扩散之间的互补关系，将大企业简单描绘为创新抑制者会为反企业、反并购的反垄断议程提供错误依据。报告通过学术研究和数据讨论企业规模、研发投入、生产率和创新扩散之间的关系。对科技创新支撑而言，该文可用于理解竞争政策、企业组织形态、并购机制和创新能力之间的政策张力。

## 元数据

- 原始标题：The National Economic Council Gets It Wrong on the Roles of Big and Small Firms in U.S. Innovation
- 发布日期：2023-07-20
- 来源链接：https://itif.org/publications/2023/07/20/nec-gets-it-wrong-on-roles-of-big-and-small-firms-in-us-innovation/
- PDF链接：https://cdn.sanity.io/files/03hnmfyj/production/4a3f201d99bef48a261a9b35cca3708e81b05ce1.pdf
- 关键词：科技创新
- 主题标签：科技创新
- 优先级：P1

## English Source Material

The National Economic Council Gets It Wrong on the Roles of Big and Small Firms in U.S. Innovation By Robert D. Atkinson | July 20, 2023 Downloads Report PDF A new White House report insinuates that small firms are America’s true innovators. Advancing this narrative makes it easier to advance an anticorporate antitrust agenda, including banning all mergers. However, scholarly studies and data do not support the administration’s premise. KEY TAKEAWAYS A new report from the National Economic Council (NEC) insinuates that large firms are not only less innovative than small ones, but that they squash innovative small firms. Advancing this narrative makes it easier to advance an anticorporate antitrust agenda, including banning all mergers and even breaking up large corporations. After all, if small firms drive innovation, attacking large firms becomes a positive good. To be sure, a core strength of the U.S. innovation ecosystem is the vibrant role start-ups play—a role that is enabled by, among other factors, the pathway of large firms acquiring innovative start-ups and providing their founders an exit strategy. But the narrative that “Big Innovation” inhibits small and mid-sized innovation, and that big firms have “little incentive to better serve customers,” is simply wrong, as most studies and data show. Moreover, the United States requires very large business if it is to compete effectively with China’s massive, state-backed corporate giants. It is imperative that federal innovation policy be guided by objective analysis, not by feel-good myths and anticorporate animus. America needs size-neutral innovation policy. Key Takeaways Contents Key Takeaways . 1 Introduction . 2 The Theory of Firm Size and Innovation . 2 The White House Study . 3 Endnotes . 6 Introduction Small firms are nimble, hungry, innovators. Large corporate giants are sluggish, risk-averse, copiers. Or so goes the conventional wisdom, which the Biden administration’s National Economic Council has recycled in a new report titled “The Economics of Investing in America.” [1] In a section declaring “To succeed we must ensure fair competition,” the report states: “The evidence is clear that new small and medium-sized businesses are drivers of innovation.” The unsubtle insinuation is that large firms are somehow stifling innovation by small firms and innovating much less. But the studies that the NEC cites do not support this conclusion, nor do most other studies or data. In fact, as the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation (ITIF) has demonstrated repeatedly, it is a myth. [2] So why advance that narrative? Make no mistake: In the anticorporate Neo-Brandeisian agenda, “fair competition” is code for fewer large corporations. If the White House can advance a narrative that lazy large firms are stifling innovation by small companies, which are the true innovators, then it’s easier to advance its anticorporate antitrust agenda, including banning all mergers and even breaking up large corporations. [3] To be sure, a core strength of the U.S. innovation ecosystem is the vibrant role start-ups play in innovation, a role that is enabled by, among other factors, the ability of large firms to acquire innovative start-ups and provide the founders with an exit strategy. [4] But the narrative that “Big Innovation” inhibits small and mid-sized innovation, and that big firms have “little incentive to better serve customers,” is simply wrong, as most studies and data show. Moreover, the United States requires very large business because America faces intense competition from massive, state-backed corporate giants from China such as Huawei, Alibaba, Tencent, China State Construction Engineering, and Baidu, which together invested $53 billion in R&D in 2021. So, it is imperative that federal innovation policy be guided by objective analysis, not by feel-good myths and anticorporate animus. [5] We need size-neutral innovation policy. The Theory of Firm Size and Innovation Economists have studied the relationship between firm size and innovation for over a century. Joseph A. Schumpeter’s 1911 book, The Theory of Economic Development , focused on the entrepreneur as the driving force for innovation. He wrote, “The typical entrepreneur is more self-centered than other types, because he relies less than they do on tradition and connection and because his characteristic task … consists precisely in breaking up old, and creating new, tradition.” [6] But writing thirty years later, after the emergence of dedicated corporate research labs and what Alfred Chandler called the “managerial corporation,” Schumpeter viewed the large corporation as central to innovation. In Capitalism, Socialism, and Democracy , published in 1942 he said, “Technological progress is increasingly becoming the business of teams of trained specialists who turn out what is required and make it work in predictable ways.” [7] He went on to observe that innovation by individual inventors and entrepreneurs “is already losing importance and is bound to lose it at an accelerating rate. … Innovation itself is being reduced to routine. Technological progress is increasingly becoming the work of trained specialists who turn out what is required to make it work in predictable ways.” [8] According to Schumpeter, “There cannot be any reasonable doubt that under the conditions of our epoch such superiority is as a matter of fact the outstanding feature of the typical large-scale unit of control.” [9] Schumpeter’s argument that firms with temporary monopolies would have both the resources and the incentive to innovate was challenged by the economist Kenneth J. Arrow, who argued that innovation would be greater in more competitive markets. [10] But as the Council of Economic Advisers reported during the Obama administration, “Allowing firms to exercise the market power they have acquired legitimately can maintain incentives for research and development, new product introduction, productivity gains, and entry into new markets, all of which promote long term economic growth.” [11] The White House Study The study cited by the National Economic Council as evidence of its sweeping insinuation that small companies that are somehow the most important drivers of innovation, neither says that nor even attempt to study this broad question. [12] Rather, its aims are more modest: to investigate commercialization of university research. The authors conclude that “Start-up ventures are an increasingly important organizational form in the commercialization of university technologies.” [13] The authors cite data showing that: There is significant growth in the proportion of start-up licenses granted by the top-25 research universities in our sample, rising from 17% in 2001 to 29% in 2019. This rise in start-up licensing is accompanied by a corresponding decline in the share of licenses to large incumbent firms, which fell from 37% to 26% during the same period. [14] So, large and small firms are now close to even when it comes to technology licenses from universities. The authors also find that incumbents, many of which are large, were granted almost twice as many patents as start-ups. [15] This is hardly evidence that small firms are the key and large firms irrelevant, as the White House report implies. The authors go on to write, “We observe that while universities and start-ups both generate similar numbers of patents, the majority of inventions in our sample are generated by incumbent firms.” [16] They note: our findings of a “start-up advantage” are likely to be driven in part by a selection effect: whether due to private information, credit constraints, or other factors, start-ups tend to pursue a smaller number of high impact innovations, while incumbents develop a larger number of innovations that are, on average lower in terms of forward citations, originality, and generality. [17] In short, they find that start-ups do play an important role in one kind of innovation, but large firms do too. Data and other scholarly research show that large corporations play a leading role in innovation. The top 1.5 percent of patenting firms, all large firms, are responsible for 48 percent of all patents from 1999 to 2008. In 2011, 108,626 utility patents of U.S. origin were granted. Just fifty U.S. companies getting the most patents (all large corporations) were responsible for over 30 percent of these patents. The reality is that only a tiny fraction of the nation’s 6 million small firms patent or innovate. [18] This is not to say that some small, technology-based firms are not highly innovative. But to assume that small equates with innovative or entrepreneurial is not accurate. Studies touting the superiority of small firms in innovation thus need to be interpreted with care. First, while small technology companies in some industries may be more innovative dollar-for-dollar than large firms, the real question is the share they contribute to overall innovation. On this measure, it is small. For example, one study found that while small technology firms patent more per employee than large firms, they were responsible for just 6.5 percent of patents from 2002 to 2006. [19] In other words, while small technology firms may be more efficient at innovation, collectively they do much less of it than large firms. In fact, one firm, IBM, received more patents than all the 504 small firms in the study combined. Incumbents, many of which are large, were granted almost twice as many patents as start-ups. This is hardly evidence that small firms are the key to innovation and large firms irrelevant, as the White House report implies. When looking at small firms that had received more than 15 patents in five years Nolan and co-authors found that a number of firms fell out of the database. Six percent of small firms became large firms, while 17 percent had merged or been acquired. Most of the remaining small firms that dropped out did so because they fell below the fifteen-patent threshold, while another 4 percent dropped out because they became troubled or declared bankruptcy. Among the top 700 firms in 2003, the top seventeen were responsible for 25 percent of all R&D expenditures, the top thirty-three for 40 percent, and the top 300 for 80 percent. [20] The National Science Foundation’s (NSF’s) annual innovation survey found in 2020 that very large companies (over 25,000 workers) are almost four times more likely to introduce a new market innovation than small businesses. [21] The survey also found that the largest companies were almost five times more likely than small companies to develop a new technology in house as opposed to acquire it from other companies or to marginally modify existing technology. [22] Small companies were also more than 5 times more likely to abandon a technology project before completion than were large companies. Moreover, while small firms account for 49 percent of U.S. employment, they account for just 16 percent of business spending on R&D, while firms of more than 25,000 workers account for 36 percent. [23] Likewise, they account for 18.8 percent of patents issued, while the largest firms account for 37.4 percent of patents. [24] Average R&D spending per worker increases with company size (not controlling for industry), with firms with 5 to 39 workers spending around $790 per worker and large firms with 5,000 or more workers spending around $3,370 per worker. [25] When ITIF surveyed almost 1,000 U.S. scientists and engineers involved in filing triadic patents (patents filed in the United States, Europe, and Japan), they found that approximately 75 percent of materials science and IT patents and 60 percent of life science patents were filed by firms with more than 500 employees. [26] Countering the popular narrative that large firms are sluggish copiers and small firms the true innovators, firms with 500 or fewer workers in the sample accounted for only around 30 percent of patents, yet they employed 48.4 percent of workers. As the innovation scholar Luc Soete has found, “Inventive activity seems to increase more than proportionately with firm size.” [27] Other research suggests that even among firms that patent, the assumption that small firms are more innovative is not that simple, in part because of the focus on patents as a measure of innovation. In a 1996 paper, Wesley M. Cohen and Steven Keppler found that R&D and firm size are closely related. In other words, large firms invest more in R&D as a share of sales. [28] Like other scholars, Cohen and Keppler found that the number of patents and innovations produced per R&D dollar declined with increasing firm size. But they argue that this is not due to inefficiency, bureaucracy, or lack of drive, but rather reflects a mismeasurement of innovation outputs. Large firms engage in “cost spreading,” in which the benefits from one innovation are spread across more units and products, leading to a greater overall level of innovation per unit of R&D. They write, “Not only does cost spreading provide the basis for explaining the R&D-size relationship, it also challenges the consensus that has emerged from the R&D literature that large firm size imparts no advantage in R&D competition.” [29] Further, “By applying the fruits of their R&D over a larger level of output, larger firms not only have a greater incentive to undertake R&D than smaller firms but they also realize a greater return from their R&D than smaller firms.” [30] In 2016, business professors Anne Marie Knott and Carl Vieregger explained how previous studies got the data wrong. [31] Historically, innovation scholars have relied on product or patent counts as a proxy for innovation output. But doing so overemphasizes product innovation and underestimates process or incremental innovation—innovation activities that large firms engage in more but rarely involve a patent filing. But the recent development of NSF’s Business Research and Development and Innovation Survey allowed them to better analyze incremental and process innovation. They estimated that a 10 percent increase in the number of employees increases R&D by 7.2 percent and that a 10 percent increase in firm revenues increases R&D productivity by 0.14 percent. Their conclusions show that large firms invest more in R&D activities and enjoy higher returns on innovation output per dollar invested in R&D. One problem with this debate about whether small firms are more important to innovation is that their role appears to differ by industry. As Giovanni Dosi and co-authors noted, “Innovative firms are likely to be rather small in industrial machinery; big firms prevail in chemicals, metal working, aerospace and electrical equipment, while many ‘science-based’ sectors (such as electronics and pharmaceuticals) tend to display a bimodal distribution with high rates of innovation of small and very large firms.” [32] Indeed, small firms play a more important role in some industries than in other industries, and at different times. In other words, a healthy innovation ecosystem depends on a mix of firm sizes. As Zoltan J. Acs and David B. Audretsch found in one of the definitive studies on the issue, “The greatest difference between the large- and small-firm innovation rates, implies that the correct answer is: It depends on the particular industry. For example, in the tire industry, the large-firm innovation rate exceeded the small-firm innovation rate by 8.46, or by 8 innovations per 1,000 employees.” [33] They found that in industries characterized by higher levels of capital intensity, “innovation tends to be greater in large firms than in small firms.” [34] For example, it cost Boeing over $15 billion to develop the carbon fiber 787 plane. [35] It now costs around $500 million to develop a leading-edge semiconductor, and $5 billion to build a fab. [36] It can cost over $2 billion to bring a new drug to market. [37] It costs over $2 billion to bring a new drug to market. It can cost billions of dollars to develop advanced AI systems. Other research has found that “small firms prevail in the early stages and innovation tends to concentrate in larger firms as industries evolve towards maturity.” [38] We saw this in the 1990s when many small firms emerged and competed to be the winners in IT. But only a few firms could emerge as winners, and the ones that did continued to invest in innovation to improve their products and services and gain advantage in related activities. As one study concluded, “The question is no longer whether size positively or negatively affects innovation but under what circumstances may small firms enjoy an innovation advantage over large ones (and vice versa).” [39] This is why Frederic M. Scherer’s warning that “the search for a firm size uniquely and unambiguously for invention and innovation is misguided” is such good advice. [40] This is not to say that tech start-ups and small R&D-intensive firms are not important to driving innovation, but to privilege small over large when it comes to innovation is a fundamental mistake. We need size neutrality when it comes to federal innovation policy, not adulation of start-ups grounded in large-company animus. About the Author Robert D. Atkinson (@RobAtkinsonITIF) is the founder and president of ITIF. Atkinson’s books include Big Is Beautiful: Debunking the Myth of Small Business (MIT, 2018), Innovation Economics: The Race for Global Advantage (Yale, 2012), Supply-Side Follies: Why Conservative Economics Fails, Liberal Economics Falters, and Innovation Economics Is the Answer (Rowman Littlefield, 2007), and The Past and Future of America’s Economy: Long Waves of Innovation That Power Cycles of Growth (Edward Elgar, 2005). Atkinson holds a Ph.D. in city and regional planning from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. About ITIF The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation (ITIF) is an independent 501(c)(3) nonprofit, nonpartisan research and educational institute that has been recognized repeatedly as the world’s leading think tank for science and technology policy. Its mission is to formulate, evaluate, and promote policy solutions that accelerate innovation and boost productivity to spur growth, opportunity, and progress. For more information, visit itif.org /about . Endnotes [1] . National Economic Council Investing in America Chief Economist, “Economics of Investing in America,” July 2023, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/Economics-of-Investing-in-America.pdf . [2] . Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, “Monopoly Myth Series,” webpage, https://itif.org/publications/2020/05/18/monopoly-myth-series/ ; Joe Kennedy, “Monopoly Myths: Is Big Tech Creating ‘Kill Zones’?” (ITIF, November 2020), https://itif.org/publications/2020/11/09/monopoly-myths-big-tech-creating-kill-zones/ ; Joe Kennedy, “Monopoly Myths: Are Superstar Firms Stifling Competition or Just Beating It?” (ITIF, January 2021), https://itif.org/publications/2021/01/11/monopoly-myths-are-superstar-firms-stifling-competition-or-just-beating-it/ . [3] . U. S. Department of Justice, “2023 Draft Merger Guidelines,” July 19, 2023, https://www.justice.gov/atr/d9/2023-draft-merger-guidelines . [4] . Joe Kennedy, “Monopoly Myths: Is Big Tech Creating ‘Kill Zones’?” (ITIF, November 2020), https://itif.org/publications/2020/11/09/monopoly-myths-big-tech-creating-kill-zones/ . [5] . European Commission, EU Industrial R&D Investment Scoreboard (World 2500) (R&D spending, sales, profit, capex, and profits for top 2500 companies from 2021, accessed April 20, 2023), https://iri.jrc.ec.europa.eu/data .; International Monetary Fund, Representative Exchange Rate for Selected Currencies for January 2012, 2017, and 2021 (exchange rate for euros to US dollars, accessed April 20, 2023), https://www.imf.org/external/np/fin/data/rms_mth.aspx?SelectDate=2021-01-31&reportType=REP . [6] . Joseph A. Schumpeter, The Theory of Economic Development (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1934 [1911]), 91. [7] . Joseph A. Schumpeter, Capitalism, Socialism, and Democracy, 3rd ed. (New York: Harper & Row, 1950 [1942]). [8] . Ibid., 132. [9] . Ibid., 100-101 [10] . Kenneth J. Arrow, “Economic Welfare and the Allocation of Resources for Invention,” in Essays in the Theory of Risk-Bearing, ed. Kenneth J. Arrow (Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1971), 144–160. [11] . White House, Council of Economic Advisers, “Benefits of Competition and Indicators of Market Power,” Council of Economic Advisors Issue Brief, ObamaWhiteHouseArchives.gov, May 2016, 3, https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/sites/default/files/page/files/20160502_competition_issue_brief_updated_cea.pdf . [12] . Julian Kolev, et al., “Of Academics and Creative Destruction: Start-up Advantage in the Process of Innovation” NBER Working Paper 30362, August 2022, http://www.nber.org/papers/w30362 . [13] . Ibid. [14] . Ibid, 11. [15] . Ibid, 36. [16] . Ibid, 24. [17] . Ibid, 30. [18] . Justin Hicks, “Knowledge Spillovers and International R&D Networks” (Washington, DC: Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, May 7, 2012), http://www2.itif.org/2012-knowledge-spillover-hicks.pdf . [19] . Anthony Breitzman and Diana Hicks, “An Analysis of Small Business Patents by Industry and Firm Size,” in Rowan University, Faculty Scholarship for the College of Science & Mathematics (Glassboro, NJ, November 2008), iii. [20] . Nolan, Zhang, and Liu, The Global Business Revolution and the Cascade Effect, 146, table 6.1. [21] . Kindlon A; National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics (NCSES). 2022. Innovation Data from the 2020 Annual Business Survey. NSF 23-310. Alexandria, VA: National Science Foundation. Available at https://ncses.nsf.gov/pubs/nsf23310 . [22] . National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics | NSF 22-344 TABLE 86 Company methods of obtaining technology capabilities for innovation activities, by company size: 2017–19. [23] . National Science Foundation, “Business Research and Development and Innovation: 2012,” NSF 16-301 (Arlington, VA: NSF, October 29, 2015), table 5, https://nsf.gov/statistics/2016/nsf16301/#chp2 . [24] . Ibid., table 5.1 [25] . Michael Mandel, “Scale and Innovation in Today’s Economy” (Washington, DC: Progressive Policy Institute, December 2001), 3, http://progressivepolicy.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/12/12.2011-Mandel_Scale-and-Innovation-in-Todays-Economy.pdf . [26] . Adams Nager, David Hart, Stephen Ezell, and Robert D. Atkinson, “The Demographics of Innovation in the United States” (Washington, DC: Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, February 2016), http://www2.itif.org/2016-demographics-of-innovation.pdf . [27] . Luc L. G. Soete, “Firm Size and Inventive Activity: The Evidence Reconsidered,” European Economic Review 12, no. 4 (October 1979): 319–340, https://ideas.repec.org/a/eee/eecrev/v12y1979i4p319-340.html . [28] . Wesley M. Cohen and Steven Klepper, “A Reprise of Size and R & D,” Economic Journal 106, no. 437 (July 1996): 948, http://www.jstor.org/stable/2235365 . [29] . Ibid. [30] . Ibid. [31] . Anne Marie Knott and Carl Vieregger, “Reconciling the Firm Size and Innovation Puzzle,” Center for Economic Studies Paper 16-20 (Washington, DC: U.S. Census Bureau, March 2016), https://www2.census.gov/ces/wp/2016/CES-WP-16-20.pdf . [32] . Giovanni Dosi, Alfonso Gambardella, Marco Grazzi, and Luigi Orsenigo, “The New Techno-Economic Paradigm and Its Impact on Industrial Structure,” in Techno-Economic Paradigms: Essays in Honor of Carlota Perez, ed. Wolfgang Dreschsler, Rainer Kattel, and Erik S. Reinert (London: Anthem Press, 2011), 84. [33] . Acs and Audretsch, Innovation and Small Firms, 50. [34] . Ibid., 55. [35] . Dominic Gates, “Boeing Celebrates 787 Delivery as Program’s Costs Top $32 Billion,” Seattle Times , September 24, 2011, http://seattletimes.com/html/businesstechnology/2016310102_boeing25.html . [36] . Mc Kinsey & Company, “Semiconductor design and manufacturing: Achieving leading-edge capabilities,” August 20, 2020, https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/industrials-and-electronics/our-insights/semiconductor-design-and-manufacturing-achieving-leading-edge-capabilities . [37] . C ongressional Budget Office, “Research and Development in the Pharmaceutical Industry,” April 2021, https://www.cbo.gov/publication/57126 . [38] . Antonio J. Revilla and Zulima Fernández, “The Relation between Firm Size and R&D Productivity in Different Technological Regimes,” Technovation 32, no. 11 (November 2012): 609–623, https://www.researchgate.net/publication/257002756_The_Relation_between_Firm_Size_and_RD_Productivity_in_Different_Technological_Regimes . [39] . Ibid. [40] . Acs and Audretsch, Innovation and Small Firms , 50. Editors’ Recommendations May 18, 2020 Monopoly Myth Series November 9, 2020 Monopoly Myths: Is Big Tech Creating “Kill Zones”? August 3, 2020 Monopoly Myths: Is Concentration Leading to Fewer Start-Ups? January 11, 2021 Monopoly Myths: Are Superstar Firms Stifling Competition or Just Beating It?