---
institution: National Institute of Science and Technology Policy Japan
institution_slug: nistep
institution_type: government_research_institute
content_type: report
source_completeness: full_text
english_title: "Digest of Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2025"
chinese_title: "日本科学技术指标2025摘要"
published_date: 2026-06-08
source_url: https://www.nistep.go.jp/en/?p=5827
pdf_url: https://www.nistep.go.jp/en/wp-content/uploads/NISTEP-RM349-SummaryE.pdf
pdf_status: 200 application/pdf
external_source_url:
authors: []
keywords: ["科技创新", "科技人才"]
subjects: []
topic_tags: ["科技创新", "科技人才"]
priority: P1
score: 8
translation_level: full_or_long
copyright_boundary: private_archive
fetch_status: detail_ok
---

# 日本科学技术指标2025摘要

## 中文摘要与研判

NISTEP《日本科学技术指标2025》是日本科技创新活动的年度量化观察，围绕研发经费、研发人员、高等教育与科技人才、论文和专利产出、技术贸易与创新活动等维度，提供日本与美国、中国、德国、法国、英国、韩国等国家的可比指标。2025版显示，日本研发经费和研究人员规模在样本国家中仍位居第三，论文数量位居第五，专利族数量位居第一，但博士人才密度、科学知识向专利转化、高研发强度产业贸易平衡等指标暴露出结构性压力。

对科技创新发展研究的价值在于，该报告提供了一套可直接对照的国家创新能力指标体系，适合用于上海建设国际科创中心、优化研发投入结构、评估科技人才供给和跟踪技术贸易竞争力。尤其是企业研发强度、大学研发经费、博士人才密度、论文-专利关联度等指标，可转化为后续知识库中的长期监测项。

## 元数据

- 原始标题：Digest of Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2025
- 发布日期：2026-06-08
- 来源链接：https://www.nistep.go.jp/en/?p=5827
- PDF链接：https://www.nistep.go.jp/en/wp-content/uploads/NISTEP-RM349-SummaryE.pdf
- 关键词：科技创新, 科技人才
- 主题标签：科技创新, 科技人才
- 优先级：P1

## English Source Material

238 2015 Digest of Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2025 Nov. 2025 Center for S&T Foresight and Indicators National Institute of Science and Technology Policy, MEXT Research Material-349 背厚：1mm This document is the English version of the executive summary of the “Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2025” which was published by NISTEP in August 2025. 【Contributors】 KANDA Yumiko Research Associate, Center for S&T Foresight and Indicators, National Institute of Science and Technology Policy (NISTEP), MEXT MURAKAMI Akiyoshi Senior Research Fellow, Center for S&T Foresight and Indicators, National Institute of Science and Technology Policy (NISTEP), MEXT OSAKI Hayami Research Fellow, Research Unit for Data Application, National Institute of Science and Technology Policy (NISTEP), MEXT OKAMURA Asako Senior Research Fellow, Center for S&T Foresight and Indicators, National Institute of Science and Technology Policy (NISTEP), MEXT IGAMI Masatsura Director, Center for S&T Foresight and Indicators, National Institute of Science and Technology Policy (NISTEP), MEXT Please specify reference as in the following example when citing this NISTEP RESEARCH MATERIAL. “Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2025”, NISTEP RESEARCH MATERIAL No. 349, National Institute of Science and Technology Policy, Tokyo. DOI：https://doi.org/10.15108/rm349e Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2025 (ABSTRACT) “The Science and Technology Indicators” is a fundamental resource for systematically understanding Japan's science and technology activities based on objective and quantitative data. These activities are categorized into five areas: “Research and Development Expenditure,” “Research and Development Personnel,” “Higher Education and Science and Technology Personnel,” “Research and Development Output,” and “Science, Technology, and Innovation.” Approximately 160 indicators represent the status of these activities in Japan and other selected countries. This report is published annually to present indicators that reflect trends in science, technology, and innovation policy. In addition, the report includes timely analyses reflecting social trends and experimental indicators. It offers the latest results of the analyses of scientific publications and patent applications conducted by NISTEP. Overviewing the latest Japan’s situation from “Science and Technology Indicators 2025,” the R&D expenditure and the number of researchers in Japan were the third-largest among selected countries (Japan, U.S., Germany, France, U.K., China, and Korea). Japan ranked fifth in the world in the number of scientific publications (fractional counting method) and first in the number of patent families. Among selected countries, Japan ranked sixth in the trade balance of high R&D intensive industries and first in that of medium-high R&D intensive industries. These rankings remain unchanged from the previous edition (“Science and Technology Indicators 2024”). The report also introduces six colu mns in total, including “ R&D expenditure as a percentage of corporate sales: Japan-U.S. comparison,” “ Price increases in research supplies: an analysis using trade statistics,” and “Analysis of high - technology industry trade with a focus on Japan-U.S.-China relations.” Blank page - 1 - Summary “The Science and Technology Indicators” is a fundamental resource for systematically understanding Japan's science and technology activities based on objective and quantitative data. These activities are categorized into five areas: “Research and Development Expenditure,” “Research and Development Personnel,” “Higher Education and Science and Technology Personnel,” “Research and Development Output,” and “Science, Technology, and Innovation.” Approximately 160 indicators clarify the status of these activities in Japan and other selected countries. (See Summary Chart 1) The indicators are designed to help readers understand the latest trends in Japan and other selected countries by referring to the latest data from Japan, other countries, and international organizations such as the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Reminder marks clearly indicate points that should be noted when making international or time-series comparisons. The indicators are reviewed regularly so that they reflect current trends in science, technology, and innovation policies. Additionally, the report includes columns that provide timely analyses reflecting social trends, as well as preliminary experimental indicators that will be incorporated into the main report in the future. “Science and Technology Indicators 2025” includes an analysis of higher costs for research supplies in light of rising prices, as well as an analysis of imports and exports in high R&D intensive industries, with a focus on the relationship between Japan, the U.S., and China. This summary presents notable indicators from “Science and Technology Indicators 2025” . However, the indicators discussed here only constitute part of the whole picture. Science, technology and innovation are complex activities involving a variety of different stakeholders. To understand the current status of science, technology, and innovation in Japan, it is important not only to look at specific indicators, but also to take a comprehensive, bird's- eye view of the indicators as a whole. [Summary Chart 1] Science and Technology Indicators 2025 at a glance Note: Numbers in parentheses indicate the number of indicators in each section. Chapter 1：R&D expenditure（39） 1.1 International comparison of each country’s R&D expenditure (6) 1.2 Government budgets (11) 1.3 R&D expenditure by sector (19) 1.4 R&D expenditure by type of R&D (3) Chapter 4：The output of R&D（34） 4.1 Scientific Papers (14) 4.2 Patents (13) 4.3 The linkage between science and technology：science linkage (7) Chapter 2：R&D personnel（38） 2.1 International comparison of the number of researchers in each country (18) 2.2 Researchers by sector (17) 2.3 Research assistants (3) Chapter 3 ： Higher Education and Science and Technology Personnel（27） 3.1 The status of the number of students in Japan’s education institutions (1) 3.2 The status of students in Higher Education institutions (9) 3.3 Career options for students in Natural sciences and Engineering (9) 3.4 International comparison of degree awarded (7) 3.5 Foreign students in institutions of higher education (1) Chapter 5：Science, Technology and Innovation（25） 5.1 Technology trade (3) 5.2 Structure of industrial trade in the selected countries (6) 5.3 Trademark applications (4) 5.4 R&D and innovation (12) Column 1: R&D expenditure as a percentage of corporate sales: Japan-U.S. comparison 2: Price increases in research supplies: an analysis using trade statistics 3: Fields of study of ASEAN students at Japanese graduate schools 4: Names of graduate programs and departments: changes in the “other” category in lists of academic disciplines 5: Trading partner countries/regions for high R&D intensive industries 6: Experts' views and current status of the relationship between the future of science and technology and society - 2 - 1. Japan's trends in key indicators The trends in key indicators for Japan are as follows: Two new indicators were have been introduced to “Science and Technology Indicators 2025.” Doctorate holders play a crucial role in generating new knowledge and bringing innovation to society. Therefore, “ Doctorate holders per million population” was introduced to provide an internationally comparable measure of progress in developing highly skilled professionals. The ability to apply scientific knowledge to technology is also important in reflecting technological trends, such as artificial intelligence, quantum computing, and genome editing. In light of this, “usage of scientific knowledge (papers) in technology (patents)” was added as an indicator of the connection between science and technology. Trends in Japan show that the rankings for all indicators are the same as in “Science and Technology Indicators 2024.” Compared to other selected countries, Japan ranked sixth for “Doctorate holders per million population,” and seventh for the “usage of scientific knowledge (papers) in technology (patents).” [Summary Chart 2] Japan's trends in key indicators Indicators Changes in Japan's ranking Japan’s figures Note R&D expenditure* No. 3→No. 3 20.4T yen No. 1: U.S., No. 2: China Business enterprises No. 3→No. 3 16.1T yen No. 1: U.S., No. 2: China Universities and colleges No. 5→No. 5 2.3T yen No. 1: U.S., No. 2: China, No. 3: Germany, No. 4: U.K. Public organizations No. 4→No. 4 1.8T yen No. 1: China, No. 2: U.S., No. 3: Germany Researchers No. 3→No. 3 701K No. 1: China, No. 2: U.S. Business enterprises No. 3→No. 3 524K No. 1: China, No. 2: U.S. Universities and colleges No. 4→No. 4 139K No. 1: China, No. 2: U.S., No. 3: U.K. Public organizations No. 5→No. 5 30K No. 1: China, No. 2:U.S., No. 3: Germany, No. 4: France Doctorate holders per million population No. 6→No. 6 123 No.1: U.K., No.2: Korea, No.3: Germany, No.4: U.S., No.5: France Scientific papers (fractional counting) No. 5→No. 5 70K No. 1: China, No. 2: U.S., No. 3: India, No. 4: Germany Adjusted top 10% scientific papers (fractional counting) No. 13→No. 13 3.4K No. 1: China, No. 2: U.S., No. 3: U.K., No. 4: India, No. 5: Germany, No. 6: Italy, No. 7: Australia, No. 8: Canada, No. 9: Korea, No. 10: Spain, No. 11: France, No. 12: Iran Adjusted top 1% scientific papers (fractional counting) No. 12→No. 12 0.29K No. 1: China, No. 2: U.S., No. 3: U.K., No. 4: Germany, No. 5: India, No. 6: Australia, No. 7: Italy, No. 8: Canada, No. 9: Korea, No. 10: France, No. 11: Spain Patent families No. 1→No. 1 65K Usage of scientific knowledge (papers) in technology (patents) No. 7→No. 7 6.9％ No. 1: U.S., No. 2: U.K., No. 3: France, No. 4: Germany, No. 5: China, No. 6: Korea Trade balance ratios for high R&D intensive industries No. 6→No. 6 0.8 No. 1: China, No. 2: Korea, No. 3: Germany, No. 4: France, No. 5: U.K. Trade balance ratios for medium-high R&D intensive industries No. 1→No. 1 2.5 Cross-border trademark applications (Number of classes) No.6→No.6 93K No. 1: China, No. 2: U.S., No. 3: Germany, No. 4: U.K., No. 5: France Notes: *: R&D expenditure is the cost of performing research and development work at a given institution, and is different from the science and technology budget. 1) The “Changes in Japan's ranking” compares the latest year and the previous year. The “Japan’s figures” is for the latest year . 2) Except for the number of scientific papers and adjusted top 10%/top 1% papers and the number of patent families, the rankings are within the following selected countries: Japan, the U.S., Germany, France, the U.K., China, and Korea. 3) “Usage of scientific knowledge (papers) in technology (patents)” is defined as the percentage of patent families that cite papers among all patent families in each country for the period 2013–2020. - 3 - 2. R&D expenditure in Japan and selected other countries (1) The growth of R&D expenditure in Japan's “business enterprises” and “universities and colleges” sectors is smaller compared to that in other selected countries. Among the selected countries, the U.S. had the largest R&D expenditure in both the “business enterprises” and “universities and colleges” sectors. Both sectors have experienced significant growth since the mid-2010s. In China, R&D expenditure has increased sharply in both sectors since the 2000s and mid-2010s, respectively . Growth in R&D expenditure in Japan's “business enterprises” sector has been slow, but it increased by 1.9 trillion yen between 2021 and 2023. R&D expenditure contributed by the government sector increased by 156.4 billion yen over the same period, accounting for 8% of the overall increase in R&D expenditure in the “business enterprises” sector. This indicates that the government sector also contributed to the overall increase in R&D expenditure. Japan's R&D expenditure in the “universities and colleges” sector remained almost flat from the beginning of the 2000s, but has increased slightly since 2021. [Summary Chart 3] Nominal values of R&D expenditure by “business enterprises” and “universities and colleges” (based on OECD purchase power parities data) (A) Business enterprises Reference: Chart 1-3-3(A), Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2025 (in Japanese) (B) Universities and colleges Reference: Chart 1-3-13(A), Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2025 (in Japanese) 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 1981 85 89 93 97 01 05 09 13 17 21 R&D expenditure (nominal values) 2023 Year Japan U.S. Germany France U.K. China Korea EU-27 ¥ trillions 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 1981 85 89 93 97 01 05 09 13 17 21 R&D expenditure (nominal values) 2023 Year Japan U.S. Germany France U.K. China Korea EU-27 ¥ trillions 4 (2) Compared to Japanese comp anies, U.S. companies focus more on R&D. This difference is particularly evident in non-manufacturing sectors. A comparison of R&D expenditure as a percentage of corporate sales in Japan and the U.S. shows that, over the past 15 years or so, the figures for Japan have remained stable in both the manufacturing and non-manufacturing sectors. In contrast, figures for the U.S. have increased in both sectors, particularly in the non-manufacturing sector. [Summary Chart 4] R&D expenditure as a percentage of corporate sales (A)Japan (B)U.S. Note： 1) The graphs cover companies that conduct research and development. 2) The U.S. industry classification is based on the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS). The 2002 NAICS is used for 2008, the 2007 NAICS for 2009- 2013, the 2012 NAICS for 2014-2019, and the 2017 NAICS for 2020 and later. Data up to 2016 does not include companies with fewer than five domestic employees. Data for 2017 through the latest year does not include companies with fewer than ten domestic employees. Reference: Column Chart 1-2, Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2025 (in Japanese) (3) The unit prices of research supplies have increased significantly compared to 2010. A comparison of the unit prices (price per kilogram) of four types of research supplies in 2010 with those in more recent years reveals a significant increase in the prices of helium and diagnostic/research reagents. Comparing unit prices in 2010 and 2024, the price is 7.2 times higher for helium and 4.6 times higher for diagnostic/research reagents. Examining the import value of diagnostic/research reagents by country/region reveals that the U.S. accounted for the largest share of total global imports, at 44%. Although China accounted for only 8% of the import value, the import volume was almost the same as that of the U.S. due to the low unit price of 8,000 yen/kg. [Summary Chart 5] Time-series change in unit prices of research supplies (vs. 2010, per kg) Note：Change from 2010 prices (2010 = 100). Reference: Column Chart 2-2, Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2025 (in Japanese) [Summary Chart 6] Import value, import volume, and unit price of research supplies (diagnostic/research reagents) by top 5 importing countr ies/regions (for 2024) Reference: Column Chart 2-3, Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2025 (in Japanese) 3.1 3.1 3.9 4.0 1.3 1.2 0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 2008 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 2023 ％ FY All industries Manufacturing industries Nonmanufacturing industries 3.7 4.9 4.4 5.1 2.8 4.7 0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 2008 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 2022 ％ year All industries Manufacturing industries Nonmanufacturing industries 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 2010 12 14 16 18 20 22 2024 YearHelium Prepared culture media Diagnostic/Research Reagents Laboratory glassware Import Value Import Volume Unit Price (100 million yen) (tons) (thousand yen/kg) U.S. 963 2,589 37 China 181 2,237 8 Germany 172 331 52 Ireland 164 932 18 U.K. 148 281 53 Total 2,199 7,642 29 Country/Region - 5 - 3. R&D personnel in Japan and the selected countries (1) The growth of researchers in Japan's “business enterprises” and “universities and colleges” sectors is smaller compared to that in other selected countries. China had the largest number of researchers in the “business enterprises” and “universities and colleges” sectors among the selected countries. While the number of researchers in the “business enterprises” sector was growing at a similar rate in the U.S. and China, it has increased sharply in China since 2021. The number of researchers in Japan remained relatively stable from the late 2000s, growing slightly in 2017 and onward, before declining by 1.3% year-on- year in 2024, resulting in a total of 524,000. China also has seen a significant increase in the number of researchers in the “universities and colleges” sector. Germany has seen a rise in the number of researchers since the mid-2000s and is closing in on Japan. Japan's growth has been moderate and has recently leveled off. [Summary Chart 7] Trends in the number of researchers in “business enterprise” and “universities and colleges” (A) Business enterprise Reference: Chart 2-2-4, Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2025 (in Japanese) (B) Universities and colleges Note：In the chart, periods for which no data is available are indicated by dotted lines. Reference: Chart 2-2-11, Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2025 (in Japanese) 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 200 1981 85 89 93 97 01 05 09 13 17 21 Number of researchers 10,000 people 2024 Year Japan U.S. Germany France U.K. China Korea EU-27 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 1981 85 89 93 97 01 05 09 13 17 21 Number of researchers 10,000 people 2024 Year Japan U.S. Germany France U.K. China Korea EU-27 - 6 - (2) The number of researchers with doctorate degrees in Japan was 188,000 in 2024, accounting for 21.5% of all researchers (excluding those enrolled in graduate doctoral programs). In 2024, the “universities and colleges” sector had the largest number of doctorate holders (141,000). The number for the “business enterprises” sector was 28,000 in the same year, which is low compared to the “universities and colleges”, but 1.7 times higher than in 2002. The percentage of doctorate holders among researchers (excluding those enrolled in graduate doctoral programs) is high in the “universities and colleges” sector, which was 61.4% in 2024. The percentage was the lowest for “business enterprises” at 4.6% in the same year. [Summary Chart 8] Situation of researchers with doctorate degrees in each sector (HC) (A) Changes in the number of researchers with doctorate degrees (B) Percentages of researchers with doctorate degrees among all researchers Note： 1) Values are on a head count basis. 2) The number of researchers in “universities and colleges” shown in Summary Chart 8 (B) includes faculty members and medical st aff/other researchers but excludes those enrolled in graduate doctoral programs. The number of doctorate holders refers to the number of researchers with doctorate degrees. Those who are concurrently employed by another university/college are excluded. 3) The number of researchers as of March 31 of the relevant year was counted. Reference: Chart 2-1-8, Japanese Science and Technology Indicators 2025 (in Japanese) 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 2002 05 08 11 14 17 20 23 10,000 people 2024 Year Business enterprises Public organizations Non-profit instituions Universities and colleges 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 2002 05 08 11 14 17 20 23 2024 Year Business enterprises Public organizations Non-profit institutions Universities and colleges Total
