---
institution: CNAS Technology and National Security
institution_slug: cnas-tech
institution_type: think_tank
content_type: article
source_completeness: full_text
english_title: "Make America the Biopower"
chinese_title: "让美国成为生物强国"
published_date: 2025-01-20
source_url: https://www.cnas.org/publications/commentary/make-america-the-biopower
pdf_url: https://s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/files.cnas.org/documents/Make-America-the-Biopower.pdf
pdf_status: 200 application/pdf
external_source_url:
authors: []
keywords: ["科技创新"]
subjects: []
topic_tags: ["科技创新"]
priority: P1
score: 4
translation_level: full_or_long
copyright_boundary: private_archive
fetch_status: detail_ok
---

# 让美国成为生物强国

## 中文摘要与研判

该文主张美国应通过新一轮生物技术战略巩固 21 世纪“生物强国”地位。建议包括制定国家生物技术战略、建设生物制造国防工业基础、精简跨部门生物技术监管和定义体系、建立统一的生物经济统计口径，并释放可负责任使用的 biodata 价值。文章特别强调，基因编辑、合成生物学、人机接口、机器学习和生物数据正在共同推动“生物革命”，其影响将覆盖制造、国防、供应链、食品、能源和健康安全。

## 元数据

- 原始标题：Make America the Biopower
- 发布日期：2025-01-20
- 来源链接：https://www.cnas.org/publications/commentary/make-america-the-biopower
- PDF链接：https://s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/files.cnas.org/documents/Make-America-the-Biopower.pdf
- 关键词：科技创新
- 主题标签：科技创新
- 优先级：P1

## English Source Material

To make the United States the 21st-century biopower, the administration should harness emerging biotechnologies to expand the nation’s economic, military, and scientific leadership. This will require concerted investment, policy reform, and prioritization. The administration should develop a national security strategy for biotech to maintain America’s biotechnology edge. The incoming team should expand the first Trump administration’s efforts to build a robust U.S. biomanufacturing industrial base. Streamlining federal bureaucracy, definitions, and codes for biotechnology would harmonize applications, guidance, and regulatory requirements. The Trump administration should unleash the power of biodata, while ensuring its safe and responsible use. The second Trump administration coincides with an accelerating biorevolution. Breakthroughs in biotechnologies such as gene editing, synthetic biology, and human-machine interfaces are rapidly converging to produce powerful tools that could boost defense capabilities, revitalize domestic manufacturing, reshore critical supply chains, and boost food, energy, and health security. As biotechnologies mature, they will combine with increasingly abundant biodata and powerful machine-learning tools to unlock even greater capabilities. The United States now stands as the global biotechnology leader, propelled by an unmatched innovation ecosystem of risk, capital, talent, and research infrastructure. The question is whether it can become the 21st-century biopower—the nation best able to harness emerging biotechnologies to expand its economic, military, and scientific leadership. No country has a better hand to achieve this ambition, but it will require concerted investment, policy reform, and prioritization from the new administration. Specifically, the Trump administration should: Develop a national strategy for biotechnology. Even as biotechnologies accelerate, the U.S. government still lacks a comprehensive, long-term strategy to secure its biotechnology leadership. The 2022 Biotechnology Executive Order is the closest such document, but it does not identify long-term goals, policies, or plans for implementation. Forty-nine foreign governments have produced detailed strategies related to the bioeconomy. 1 America should join them. Following a national biotechnology strategy, the administration should direct key agencies to develop detailed implementation plans and designate a chief biotechnology officer with a direct reporting line to the undersecretary level. Breakthroughs in biotechnologies such as gene editing, synthetic biology, and human-machine interfaces are rapidly converging to produce powerful tools that could boost defense capabilities, revitalize domestic manufacturing, reshore critical supply chains, and boost food, energy, and health security. Build America’s biomanufacturing defense industrial base. The Department of Defense (DoD) has come to recognize the potential of biotechnologies to enhance military capabilities, improve service-member health and performance, and fortify vulnerable supply chains. For instance, biotechnologies could provide domestic, renewable sources of jet fuel. 2 They could enable the reshoring of defense manufacturing for explosives and replace foreign-sourced critical chemicals and other materials. Biotechnologies could even self-repair airfields with bacteria-filled “living concrete” that regenerates to fill cracks as they emerge or protect soldiers with “dragon silk” armor that is both lighter and up to three times tougher than Kevlar. 3 Unlike the conventional defense industrial base, however, there is no robust U.S. biomanufacturing industrial base today. To build one, the first Trump administration launched one of the most significant biotechnology efforts to date: the Bioindustrial Manufacturing and Design Ecosystem (BioMADE). 4 With an initial DoD investment of $87 million, BioMADE seeks to foster a domestic bioindustrial manufacturing ecosystem with initiatives to bridge the research-manufacturing gap, boost collaboration between industry, academia, and government, and derisk critical infrastructure, among other goals. 5 The DoD also created the Tri-Service Biotechnology for a Resilient Supply Chain (T-BRSC) program, which provides more than $270 million over five years to accelerate research and development (R&D) of defense-relevant supply chains. 6 Finally, the DoD has allocated $1 billion for a new Distributed Bioindustrial Manufacturing Investment Program (DBMIP), which will expand domestic biomanufacturing capacity for products with both defense and commercial applications. 7 The Trump administration should focus, streamline, and prioritize these efforts and leverage the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency’s (DARPA) Biological Technologies Office and the DoD’s new Office of Strategic Capital, which combines public and private investment to fortify defense-critical technology supply chains. 8 It also should work with Congress to increase the DoD’s total current spending from $1.27 billion over five years to $5 billion over 10 years, assuming T-BRSC and DBMIP spend current funds strategically. Inaction risks ceding potentially transformative defense applications to foreign competitors. Streamline biotechnology bureaucracy. Biotechnology’s cross-cutting applications from pharmaceuticals to agriculture have produced a complex and inefficient federal regulatory structure. Since 1986, the federal government has regulated biotechnology through the Coordinated Framework, a tri-agency regulatory mechanism jointly led by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. 9 Although the Coordinated Framework sought to consolidate and clarify federal regulation, in practice, the three lead agencies maintain their own tangle of rules, definitions, and requirements that stifle innovation and especially burden smaller biotech ventures and independent researchers. 10 The Trump administration should replace the Coordinated Framework with a single, consolidated office that collapses the existing oversight functions of the three agencies. This would provide a single entry point for biotech researchers, ventures, other federal agencies, and international partners. The administration should empower this consolidated office to harmonize applications, guidance, and regulatory requirements. Streamline federal definitions and codes for biotechnology. The Trump administration should continue the Department of Commerce’s effort to update the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and the North American Product Classification System (NAPCS) codes for biotechnologies and the bioeconomy as part of its 2027 revision process. These codes provide a uniform method to track and measure economic activity for different sectors and products. To date, there are no such codes for biotechnology due to its cross-sectoral nature. Commerce should propose NAICS and NAPCS code revisions to include biotechnology, which the administration should consider requiring federal agencies to adopt to promote uniform measurement and analysis. At the same time, the administration should consolidate the varied definitions for biotechnology across the interagency. 11 The existing tangle of definitions impede federal coordination, measurement, and policy. They also burden researchers and the private sector—especially smaller biotech ventures. The administration should task the National Institute of Standards and Technology with developing uniform federal definitions for biotechnology and the bioeconomy, drawing on the recent lexicon and in coordination with the 2027 NAICS and NAPCS revision process. No country has a better biotechnology hand than America. The administration has a historic opportunity to play it wisely and secure the United States’ position as the 21st-century biopower. Unleash the power of biodata. Just as data fueled the information revolution, biodata will fuel the biorevolution. This includes conventional biodata describing genes, proteins, and metabolites to broader nutrition, agricultural, and environmental data. 12 Today, biodata exists across an archipelago of public and private databases, each with its own intake, storage, and retention protocols that are rarely interoperable. In effect, this leaves United States sitting on a wealth of biodata it struggles to fully access. By contrast, China has proactively amassed vast biodata from its population—including through coercive collection practices against the Uyghur minority and deceptive collection through commercial genetic test kits sold abroad. 13 Unlike the United States, concerns about privacy and civil liberties do not inhibit the Chinese government’s ability to seize, store, and analyze its growing troves of biodata. The value of biodata only will grow as machine learning tools improve. To avoid the United States falling farther behind, the Trump administration should pursue an all-out effort to unleash the power of American biodata while preserving the country’s commitment to privacy and civil liberties. Specifically, the new administration should fund the National Institute of Health’s All of Us Research Program, which aims to create a voluntary database of health information for internal and legitimate third-party research. It also should clarify existing laws and regulations for using health and genomic data for biotechnology research, invest in privacy-preserving technology to encourage responsible biotechnology R&D, direct relevant federal agencies to make their existing biodata AI-ready; and boost cybersecurity support at biodata repositories such as hospitals, clinics, and labs. A more ambitious goal would be to seed an American BioBank, modeled after the highly successful UK Biobank, which would consolidate and secure diverse biodata for use by vetted biotechnology researchers and ventures. No country has a better biotechnology hand than America. The administration has a historic opportunity to play it wisely and secure the United States’ position as the 21st-century biopower. The First 100 Days The First 100 Days is a series of recommendations from CNAS experts. The recommendations span the most pressing issues that will test the administration, including competition... Read More Download the Full Report Download PDF Endnotes Thomas Dietz et al., “Governance of the Bioeconomy: A Global Comparative Study of National Bioeconomy Strategies,” Sustainability 10, no. 9 (September 6, 2018): 3190, https://doi.org/10.3390/su10093190 . ↩ “Biofuels,” Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, https://www.darpa.mil/research/programs/biofuels . ↩ Timothy Marler and Daniel M. Gerstein, “Biotechnology and Today’s Warfighter,” RAND Corporation, October 25, 2022, https://www.rand.org/pubs/commentary/2022/10/biotechnology-and-todays-warfighter.html ; Alexander McNamara, “Environmentally Friendly ‘Living Concrete’ Capable of Self-Healing,” BBC, January 15, 2020, https://www.sciencefocus.com/news/environmentally-friendly-living-concrete-capable-of-self-healing ; and “Spider Silk,” Kraig Biocraft Laboratories, October 13, 2014, https://www.kraiglabs.com/spider-silk . ↩ “DOD Approves $87 Million for Newest Bioindustrial Manufacturing Innovation Institute,” U.S. Department of Defense, October 20, 2020, https://www.defense.gov/News/Releases/Release/Article/2388087/DoD-approves-87-million-for-newest-bioindustrial-manufacturing-innovation-insti . ↩ “BioMADE: Revitalizing U.S. Biomanufacturing and Fostering Collaboration,” SIMB News 73, no. 4, (October/November/December 2023): 119–126, https://www.simbhq.org/docs/simbnews/OctDec2023_SIMBNEWS.pdf . ↩ Rebecca Coons, “Policymakers Take Notice of Bioeconomy’s Potential,” Industrial Biotechnology 18, no. 5 (2022): 263–65, https://liebertpub.com/doi/10.1089/ind.2022.29290.editorial . ↩ “FACT SHEET: The United States Announces New Investments and Resources to Advance President Biden’s National Biotechnology and Biomanufacturing Initiative,” The White House, September 14, 2022, https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/14/fact-sheet-the-united-states-announces-new-investments-and-resources-to-advance-president-bidens-national-biotechnology-and-biomanufacturing-initiative . ↩ “U.S. Department of Defense Office of Strategic Capital,” U.S. Department of Defense, Office of Strategic Capital, https://www.cto.mil/osc . ↩ “EPA, FDA, and USDA Issue Joint Regulatory Plan for Biotechnology,” U.S. Department of Agriculture, May 8, 2024, https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2024/05/08/epa-fda-and-usda-issue-joint-regulatory-plan-biotechnology . ↩ Report on Stakeholder Outreach Related to Ambiguities, Gaps, Uncertainties in Regulation of Biotechnology Under the Coordinated Framework , (U.S. Department of Agriculture, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and U.S. Food and Drug Administration, March 11, 2023), https://usbiotechnologyregulation.mrp.usda.gov/eo14081-8a-stakeholder-engagement.pdf . ↩ “Regulation of Biotechnology under TSCA and FIFRA,” United States Environmental Protection Agency, https://www.epa.gov/regulation-biotechnology-under-tsca-and-fifra . ↩ Michelle Holko, Biotech Matters: Great Data Competition and Interoperability with Allies and Partners (Center for a New American Security, April 2, 2024), https://www.cnas.org/publications/reports/biotech-matters-great-data-competition-and-interoperability-with-allies-and-partners . ↩ Caroline Schuerger, Vikram Venkatram, and Katherine Quinn, China and Medical AI: Implication of Big Biodata for the Bioeconomy (Center for Security and Emerging Technology, May 2024), https://cset.georgetown.edu/publication/china-and-medical-ai/ . ↩ More from CNAS Commentary Technology & National Security AI-Ready Biodata Is America’s Next Strategic Infrastructure This article was originally published in War on the Rocks. There is little doubt in Washington that AI is a powerful technology that will help determine which country rules th... By Michelle Holko & Sam Howell War on the Rocks March 9, 2026 Reports Technology & National Security Biopower For policymakers, the question is not whether the biorevolution has transformative power, but which nation will responsibly harness that power... By Vivek Chilukuri & Hannah Kelley January 15, 2025 Reports Technology & National Security AI and the Evolution of Biological National Security Risks New AI capabilities may reshape the risk landscape for biothreats in several ways. AI is enabling new capabilities that might, in theory, allow advanced actors to optimize bio... By Bill Drexel & Caleb Withers August 13, 2024 Reports Technology & National Security Biotech Matters: Problems with Life Science Databases in the United States While humans will retain their ultimate mysteries, many aspects of their traits, diseases, and environment are becoming increasingly tractable. Much of this advance has come f... By Carol Kuntz May 1, 2024 View All Reports View All Articles & Multimedia
