---
institution: Ada Lovelace Institute
institution_slug: ada-lovelace
institution_type: think_tank
content_type: article
source_completeness: summary_only
english_title: "What is an AI transcription tool?"
chinese_title: "什么是AI转写工具"
published_date: 2026-02-05
source_url: https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/resource/what-is-an-ai-transcription-tool/
pdf_url: 
pdf_status: none
external_source_url: 
authors: ["Oliver Bruff", "Lara Groves", "Mavis Machirori", "Oliver Bruff", "Lara Groves", "Mavis Machirori"]
keywords: ["AI治理"]
subjects: []
topic_tags: ["AI治理"]
priority: P1
score: 5
translation_level: full_or_long
copyright_boundary: private_archive
fetch_status: detail_ok
---

# 什么是AI转写工具

## 中文摘要与研判

该资源解释AI转写工具的基本功能、使用场景和潜在治理问题。其价值在于为后续阅读社会照护、医疗、行政记录等场景中的AI采用报告提供术语基础，也提示语音数据、敏感信息和自动化记录并非单纯效率议题。

## 元数据

- 原始标题：What is an AI transcription tool?
- 发布日期：2026-02-05
- 来源链接：https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/resource/what-is-an-ai-transcription-tool/
- PDF链接：无
- 关键词：待抽取
- 主题标签：AI治理
- 优先级：P1

## English Source Material

What is an AI transcription tool? | Ada Lovelace Institute Skip to content Contributing author Mavis Machirori Project Transcribing trust Research domain Social and Economic Policy Keywords AI evaluation AI in the public sector Chapters Print this page Share this page How to read this paper If you are a digital or data services lead looking for evidence about the efficacy and impact of transcription tools in context, read ‘How are AI transcription tools tested and evaluated?’. If you are a frontline worker taking part in an AI transcription tool pilot in the public sector and you are interested in learning about the underlying technology, read ‘What are AI transcription tools?’ and ‘Considerations for using and evaluating AI transcription tools’ to understand the benefits and risks. If you are a policymaker and you are interested in emerging insights about the adoption of AI across the public sector, read ‘Current evaluations and assessments of AI transcription tools’ and ‘How are AI transcription tools used in the public sector?’. Introduction There is growing opinion in policy and government circles that AI can make many aspects of the public sector more efficient. One example of a type of AI that is generating attention is AI transcription tools. These tools are designed and marketed to make administrative tasks, such as note-taking and writing summaries of meetings, faster and more efficient. They are increasingly built from the latest generation of foundation models. AI transcription tools have the potential to be highly effective when applied to tasks and professions requiring a high degree of information to be processed, recorded and transcribed – for example, in clinical contexts, courts and in social work. As such, AI transcription tools have captured policy attention [1] [2] and have been quickly adopted into public sector service delivery. It is estimated that around a third of social workers are using generative AI tools with transcription capabilities, such as Microsoft Copilot. [3] The UK government has shown enthusiasm about the potential for AI transcription tools to ease the pressure on public services in the face of resourcing challenges. AI transcription tools feature heavily in the government’s plans to roll out AI tools across the public sector. Ambitions for the adoption of AI transcription tools have been outlined in the 10 Year Health Plan for England [4] and the AI Action Plan for Justice. [5] Additionally, the government’s AI Exemplars programme identifies AI transcription tools as one of the ‘most promising’ AI applications for public benefit. [6] This explainer aims to support policymakers or public sector agencies recommending AI tool adoption and public sector workers using these tools. We combine technical detail about the underlying architecture of AI transcription tools (including their potential risks and benefits) with tailored insights into approaches for evaluating and assessing the efficacy of transcription tools. There is emphasis on public sector adoption throughout. First, by highlighting the core technical features of AI transcription tools, we provide a deeper understanding of their suitability for contexts where accuracy and efficiency are prioritised. We show that as AI transcription tools are a type of generative AI system, they introduce the same potential risk of bias, hallucination and data protection risks. We also pay attention to their wider application and systemic risks, such as how these tools may augment or challenge decision-making and accountability. Second, by synthesising emerging evidence about AI transcription tool adoption and evaluation in the public sector, we aim to inform ongoing adoption efforts such as pilots. Ultimately, this explainer provides valuable evidence to ensure AI transcription tools are deployed and evaluated in the public interest. What are AI transcription tools? Transcription tools enable spoken audio to be reproduced as written text. They can be used to support note-taking and the documentation of conversations, meetings, interviews or recordings. We use the term ‘AI transcription tools’ to refer to a new generation of transcription technologies that are powered by foundation models trained on extremely large datasets of recorded speech. [7] These tools are sometimes referred to as ‘AI scribes’, ‘ambient scribes’ or ‘ambient voice technologies’. [8] Some general-purpose AI tools that are also powered by foundation models, such as ChatGPT, have transcription and summarisation capabilities. AI transcription tools can be used in a variety of contexts that require a transcript or a summary of an interaction, such as an interview or meeting. They can also support contexts where accurate record-keeping and official documentation are required as part of a best practice service, such as patient records or care assessments. Some AI transcription tools also include additional features to restructure transcribed text into different formats, including AI-generated summaries of conversations and meetings that underline key points or even provide recommended actions. These features can be fine-tuned and iterated further for specific contexts, such as supporting healthcare staff to write a patient report that meets specific formatting requirements. How do AI transcription tools work? AI transcription tools are powered by two types of foundation models: an automated speech recognition (ASR) model and a large language model (LLM) . As set out in our explainer on the topic, foundation models are AI systems trained on large amounts of data for multimodal capabilities, meaning they can generate new text, images, video and voice materials. [9] Below, we describe how each model supports the function of an AI transcription tool. Automated speech recognition models Automated speech recognition (ASR) models are one of the two types of foundation models used to power AI transcription tools. ASR models are the newest generation of a family of models that can create a written transcript of a conversation. New ASR models are trained on large datasets of recorded conversations that are paired with pre-transcribed text of what was said in each recording. The foundation models identify patterns between the sounds in the recordings and the words in the corresponding text. AI transcription tools use these patterns to transcribe speech from new audio files by estimating the sequence of written words that best fits the sounds in the audio files. Examples of ASR models that are commonly used in AI transcription tools include OpenAI’s Whisper and Deepgram. Developers of AI transcription tools can fine-tune ASR models to improve their performance in specific, specialised contexts. Fine-tuning is the process of using context-specific audio recordings to further train a model to recognise specific words and phrases, such as medical terminology or other context-specific terms. Large language models Large language models (LLMs) are the second kind of foundation model used to power AI transcription tools. LLMs are a subset of foundation models created for natural-language capabilities. They are trained on large amounts of written text and underpin a range of AI tools, such as customer service chatbots. In AI transcription tools, LLMs summarise the transcripts made by ASR models into key points and formats that can be included in official documentation. LLMs in AI transcription tools can be fine-tuned to introduce additional or context-specific safeguards from those of the underlying foundation model, to better enable faithful transcription. For example, it is possible that a conversation taking place in a social care setting may mention child sexual abuse material (CSAM), but commercial foundation models are designed to filter and block this content from appearing in outputs by default. The use of ASR models and LLMs within the same tool means that transcription tools can also use written text as an input to accompany audio recordings. LLMs have an interface for users to prompt the tool to alter the final outputs of AI transcription tools, and some can also use photographs of handwritten notes as inputs. This text will be incorporated into the final output generated by the transcription tool. As a result, users can adapt the outputs produced by AI transcription tools to add more detail or, if they spot inaccuracies, by prompting the tool to make desired changes. For example, a doctor could combine notes from previous interactions with a patient with an audio recording of a more recent interaction, to update their notes about the patient. The doctor can then prompt the AI transcription tool to make changes to the notes after they have reviewed them. Figure 1: The architecture of an AI transcription tool This diagram shows the workings of a generic AI transcription tool and how it uses an ASR model and LLM to produce a summary of a conversation. The boxes show the different components of the AI transcription tool and the arrows show how information is passed between them. The dotted arrows show how the LLM may access additional sources of information, such as user prompts or other relevant documents, to generate summaries that are more suited to the user’s needs. Figure 1 is one approximation of what an AI transcription tool may look like. Although different AI transcription tools will use roughly the same components, their specific design may differ. How are AI transcription tools different from the previous generation of transcription tools? Older transcription tools used automated speech recognition (ASR) models, without foundation models and large language models (LLMs). These older models converted audio recordings to transcriptions using traditional statistical methods that consisted of algorithms designed to complete narrowly defined tasks, such as identifying specific sounds within speech. However, the narrowness of the underlying models made these older transcription tools inflexible and inaccurate. The availability of large amounts of training data and computational power means that ASR models can now be developed as foundation models. These new ASR models match sounds to written text directly, using the associations between sounds and written text in their training data. As a result, new ASR models are often described as having ‘end-to-end’ architectures. This is because information from the audio recordings is not processed through the multiple statistical models found in previous transcription technologies. [10] This technological advancement means end-to-end ASR models perform better than older ASR models, because a higher percentage of words from the audio recording is faithfully transcribed into text. This metric is referred to as the ‘word error rate’. [11] Popular examples of AI transcription tools on the market include Otter.ai and Rev, but other generative AI tools marketed for more general use may contain transcription capabilities, such as Microsoft’s Copilot. How does the data used to train foundation models impact AI transcription tools? A defining feature of foundation models is their need for large quantities of training data. [12] However, building foundation models requires developers to make decisions about what kinds of data to include, and how this data is cleaned and categorised. These decisions can significantly impact how foundation models function. [13] Many developers of foundation models do not publicly share information about the data their models are trained on. Without a clear understanding of the data used to build a foundation model, it is difficult to understand why the model generates certain outputs. [14] Research shows that these data considerations are important for foundation models that power AI transcription tools. ASR models could inaccurately transcribe conversations if the words and phrases in the audio recordings used for training data do not reflect the kinds of conversations that they transcribe in practice. [15] Similarly, LLMs may reproduce harmful content from their training data in the new text that they generate, such as hate speech and slurs. [16] AI transcription tools may perform differently depending on their underlying foundation models, but even tools built from the same foundation models should be evaluated independently. For example, two different AI transcription tools could both be built from GPT-5, but one fine-tuned for use in healthcare will be trained to retrieve information from a smaller dataset, such as clinical records, which may mean it scores better on accuracy evaluations. [17] Organisations that want to deploy AI transcription tools should consider the trade-offs between different tools on the market and rigorously assess whether they function as intended for the desired context. Considerations for using and evaluating AI transcription tools Previous Ada research shows that organisations should establish clear success criteria when deploying new technologies, as well as methods for regular testing and evaluation. [18] All of these processes should include the perspectives of people impacted by new technologies. This will ensure they work more effectively in the public interest. Regular testing is also important because the use of new technologies to automate tasks can create new responsibilities, such as reviewing and adapting the outputs of AI tools, that counteract anticipated efficiencies. [19] For example, one evaluation of a pilot of AI transcription tools for generating witness statements found that AI transcription did not reduce the amount of time that police officers spent taking statements, because the time saved was replaced by the additional time required for amending poor quality statements. [20] What are some expected benefits of using AI transcription tools? Organisations may have a number of incentives to adopt AI transcription tools. There are a range of potential benefits from the use of AI transcription tools. Many of these benefits stem from the ability of transcription tools to reduce the time that people spend documenting interactions. [21] [22] However, AI transcription tools could also provide benefits beyond time savings. The tables below summarise the possible benefits of AI transcription tools in three categories: Time savings from administrative tasks can create efficiency gains for frontline workers. Improved quality of work through changes to how frontline workers conduct and record interactions with the people they support. Improved accessibility of work for people who might struggle to meet documentation requirements. Time savings from administrative tasks Potential benefit Description Resource allocation People could reallocate their time from administrative tasks to tasks that are more meaningful or important to them. For example, clinical staff could spend more time with patients. [23] Cost savings Organisations may be able to save on staffing costs if people are able to conduct the same amount of work in less time. AI transcription could also reduce the need for outsourced suppliers of transcription and translation services. [24] Work-life balance People could experience wellbeing benefits if spending less time documenting interactions reduces their overall workload. Improved quality of work Potential benefit Description Improved quality of interactions AI transcription tools could remove the need for people to make notes during conversations, allowing them to concentrate more fully on the interaction. This could be beneficial in contexts where relational aspects of conversations are important, such as in social care. [25] Improved quality of documentation By recording an entire conversation and summarising it afterwards, AI transcription tools could capture more information from a conversation than a frontline worker’s handwritten notes. This could support people to produce more detailed documentation that better captures what was discussed. Improved accessibility of work Potential benefit Description Supporting accessibility Extensive documentation requirements and intense workloads mean that some frontline professions can be disproportionately challenging for neurodiverse people. AI transcription tools could support neurodiverse people in these environments by automating parts of the documentation process. [26] What are the risks of AI transcription tools? Like all AI systems, AI transcription tools present multiple risks that stem from the technical aspects of their design and their integration into social structures. We summarise the risks of AI transcription tools using three categories: Technical risks refer to the risks originating from the design and development of AI transcription tools, including whether the system is biased or inaccurate. Application risks describe the potential for negative outcomes from integrating AI transcription tools into complex and sensitive processes, such as integration in contexts where users have received inadequate training on AI. Systemic risks refer to the broader social and economic consequences of AI transcription tools, such as labour impacts. Technical risks All AI transcription tools are prone to bias and hallucination (producing fabricated content) because they are powered by foundation models. [27] The potential for bias is present across all data-driven systems. A technical definition of bias is the statistical deviation from a desired or ‘true’ result, which can lead to real-world bias when the output of a system results in individuals or groups experiencing a different, unfair outcome. Hallucination is a risk specific to foundation models and generative AI systems built on top of foundation models. The term refers to the phenomenon of these systems producing convincing but factually incorrect information, presented as if it were ‘the truth’. [28] AI transcription tools compound the risks of bias and hallucination because they pass information through two separate foundation models and therefore create multiple opportunities for bias and hallucinations to occur in their outputs. First, during the transcription of audio recordings into text using an ASR model, and second, when the transcribed text is summarised for system usability using an LLM. In ASR models, hallucination refers to generated text that has no relation to the conversation in the original audio recording. ASR models have been found to generate random text that promotes harmful perceptions of individuals included in the recording, including portrayals of violence, demographic stereotypes and false relationships between speakers. [29] ASR models are also less accurate for people with characteristics that are underrepresented in the data that the models are trained on. Differences in the way that people with different characteristics speak, such as their accents, mean that transcription tools can create inaccurate outputs even if these characteristics are not mentioned in the recorded conversation. For example, foundation models have been found to transcribe speech with varying accuracy between different groups, performing more poorly for non-native English speakers than for native English speakers. [30] Other research has shown that hallucinations disproportionately occur for people who have conditions that affect their ability to coordinate language. For example, aphasia can create delays, repetitions or missing words in peoples’ speech. [31] LLMs also hallucinate and perpetuate biases, as shown in our evidence review of foundation models in the public sector. [32] These inaccuracies can occur even when LLMs perform a seemingly neutral function like summarising a written document. Research has shown that summaries of care records produced by LLMs can differ significantly according to the characteristics of the people that the document relates to, such as their gender. [33] Figure 2: Bias and hallucination in ASR models Because of these potential inaccuracies, using AI transcription tools to support decision-making can put people at risk. For example, it is possible that inaccuracies from AI transcription tools used to write police reports could be used as evidence in court cases and increase the likelihood of injustices in legal proceedings. [34] Similarly, evidence suggests that transcription inaccuracies can produce incorrect diagnoses for patients when AI transcription tools are used in medical contexts. [35] Another critical risk from the technical features of AI transcription tools arises from their underlying foundation models often being hosted externally by foundation model developers or third-party cloud providers. [36] This decreases an organisation’s control over the data that is transcribed and summarised with AI transcription tools. As a result, organisations may not be able to prevent sensitive information being used in unexpected ways or stored insecurely. [37] The foundation model developers may be based in different countries, increasing the number of cross-border transfers of information and further reducing the organisations’ control over their information. Organisations should conduct robust Data Protection Impact Assessments to identify privacy risks introduced by AI transcription tools. [38] Organisations will also need to regularly assess AI transcription tools, compare alternative tools and consider whether the risk of bias and hallucination is acceptable for the intended use case. Application risks AI transcription tools can create risks even if they perform perfectly well at a technical level. These risks stem from how people react to new technologies unpredictably and the challenges of implementing new technologies in sensitive contexts. The fact that AI transcription tools generate outputs in compelling professional language could lead to users’ over-reliance on the legitimacy of their outputs in ways that are detrimental.­ For example, frontline workers may defer to an AI-generated transcript in critical decision-making contexts, underplaying their own professional judgement. [39] This tendency is often known as ‘automation bias’. People may also modify their behaviour to accommodate AI transcription. For example, it is possible that people who use frontline public services will feel uncomfortable with the use of AI transcription tools in certain sensitive contexts, such as clinical settings, which could cause them to ‘self-censor’ when faced with a transcription tool. [40] This could lead to people withholding important information from professionals that could improve the quality of care or support that they receive. AI transcription tools may not wholly reflect the ‘true’ context of a meeting or an interaction. For example, AI transcription tools use auditory information, not visual or sensory cues. In some cases, it could be important for frontline workers to record additional observations about people’s body language or the environment that they live in, even if these factors are not spoken about directly. Moreover, poor quality audio, caused by use in noisy environments, could also mean that important information is missing. This can distort the accuracy of the final summary that is produced. Similarly, official records based on summaries of interactions often require specific kinds of language and narrative styles that AI transcription tools may not replicate fully. One study of an AI transcription tool used for writing domestic abuse witness statements found that AI-generated statements used a more academic style that did not include a strong narrative of events and therefore did not accurately represent the witnesses’ accounts in court. [41] In sensitive contexts like social care, it is often more appropriate to use language that centres the perspectives of people and avoids complex, technical language. AI-generated technical language could obscure aspects of people’s experiences in official records, impacting the decisions made based on these records and people’s ability to understand significant events in their lives. [42] Additionally, the AI-generated transcript and summaries may not reference that it was produced by AI, which may have implications for independent reviews of the documentation. [43] Application risks and impacts underscore the importance of research, testing and piloting AI transcription tools with the intended user population. This should be done in context to create rich grounded evidence about the interface between the technology and affected groups. Systemic risks The introduction of new technologies to established processes can change how organisations, industries or economies function. Such knock-on effects can change how people work with these institutions and the experiences of people who rely on them for support. We have identified two areas where AI transcription tools can potentially change processes and systems in a way that creates systemic impact. First, AI transcription tools can complicate processes for allocating accountability in critical decision pathways. The introduction of AI – wholly or partially – into official documentation such as witness statements may introduce challenges around the ‘human in the loop’ and the extent to which people have oversight and authority over work and decision-making processes supported by AI. As a result, it could be difficult to identify who is responsible for official records when humans do not have control over the whole process. Due to the black box nature of foundation models, it is also impossible to explain why AI transcription tools prioritise, ignore or reframe different pieces of information when generating summaries of written texts. This means there will be random variation in the outputs of AI transcription tools that will require oversight and, where necessary, correction, but may sometimes be difficult to catch. [44] This could create challenges for organisations or processes where accurate records are critical and could have implications for people seeking redress when mistakes are made. Second, AI transcription tools could cause deskilling in some professions where skills are traditionally learned through the documentation processes. When tasks are automated, it can reduce the opportunities for people to develop skills and knowledge through repetition. [45] For example, social workers may learn to exercise their professional judgement through the process of writing assessments of people’s care needs. In the context of AI transcription, professionals may lose opportunities to develop sector-specific knowledge and reasoning skills that they would otherwise learn by manually recording and summarising interactions with people. The widespread automation of significant parts of people’s work could also lead to broader economic consequences. For example, automation could reduce the quality of people’s work, if their work is reallocated to unfulfilling tasks, or exacerbate economic inequalities, if automation reduces demand for paid workers. [46] Systemic risks highlight how AI transcription tools exist alongside other AI technologies and demonstrate the need to consider whether the impacts of these technologies are justly and equitably distributed. How are AI transcription tools tested and evaluated? As we set out above, the latest AI transcription tools are powered by foundation models and incorporate LLMs into their architecture. This technical context presents a few challenges when evaluating a transcription tool’s efficacy. First, any fine-tuning to an AI transcription tool (such as training it on a dataset of clinical records so it is more effective for adoption in a healthcare context) may override or degrade the safety guarantees of the foundation model. The LLM component of an AI transcription tool will therefore require specific, iterative evaluation different to that undertaken by the foundation model developer, to account for capability changes or potential biases created by the fine-tuning. Second, LLMs – as a form of generative AI – are highly dynamic, meaning the same system prompt may generate different outputs. They also create risk of distributed impacts that are hard to measure at a system level. This type of system makes standardising testing and evaluations challenging and requires an iterative approach, to address any updates in the underlying model as well as to ensure the system is effective and safe for the deployment context. Deployers of AI transcription tools may face challenges and trade-offs identifying and operationalising appropriate approaches and metrics for evaluation. What is an evaluation? AI model evaluations Researchers and practitioners in machine learning use evaluations to refer to assessments of technical capabilities of an AI model (including foundation models). For example, how well it performs against a chosen benchmark like bias, or how easily a model exhibits certain types of behaviours, like deception or sycophancy. There is no consensus around a defined scope for a model evaluation. Previous Ada research finds that model evaluations are often targeted narrowly, presenting models with a variety of inputs and checking the outputs correspond with ethics or safety goals. Some evaluations are broader and consider how users interact with the application on top of the foundation model (see ‘Human interaction evaluations’ below). [47] Typical model evaluation methods for foundation models include benchmarking, which involves generating a score or metric from testing the model’s performance on a range of tasks, like legal comprehension or medical reasoning. Other types of technical testing like red-teaming – an activity that involves the probing of a system in an adversarial way to identify potential harmful outputs – are a form of evaluation that is specifically safety focused. Different actors are involved with model evaluations and other forms of technical testing across the AI development and deployment lifecycle. In the context of AI transcription tools, evaluations may be conducted upstream by model developers using standardised assessments for safety or bias, and downstream by deployers after fine-tuning, to check for specific performance on the task of transcription. Human interaction evaluations If a model evaluation is a narrow form of evaluation purely focused on the model level, there are other evaluation approaches that focus on assessing an AI system in its real-world application. These are sometimes referred to as human interaction evaluations. [48] An example evaluation of this kind might involve gathering evidence on an LLM being used in a school to understand how it changes pedagogical practices of teachers. Other approaches for evaluations Outside of AI, ‘evaluation’ can refer to any kind of experimental or descriptive investigation into a system, process or intervention. These kinds of evaluations might be used to deliver evidence of efficacy or value for money, which might be a requirement for public sector projects. The UK government’s guidance for central government agencies on how to conduct evaluations – the Magenta Book – defines evaluations as ‘systematic assessment of the design, implementation and outcomes of an intervention. It involves understanding how an intervention is being, or has been, implemented and what effects it has, for whom and why’, with a focus on impacts and cost-effectiveness. Some evaluations may include experimental or quasi-experimental design. Experimental methods include randomised controlled-trials (RCTs), which are often used in social science research, and are used for robust evidence-gathering to establish a causal relationship between two (or more) factors. Clinical research, for example, uses methods like non-inferiority testing to ensure that a new medical treatment does not perform any worse than an existing treatment. [49] AI evaluations may be adopted alongside other resources that are more tailored towards organisational processes and day-to-day responsible management of AI systems. Examples of such assessments include the UK government’s AI Management Essentials tool and Careful Industries’ Careful Consequence Check. [50] We have existing evidence about AI transcription tools’ capabilities from studies assessing their accuracy and their pitfalls, such as demonstrating gender bias, and from their application into critical decision-making contexts that require complete and accurate information, such as medical settings. [51] [52] Potential approaches and metrics for evaluations of AI transcription tools As we show above, there are several existing approaches for AI evaluations that draw from different disciplines. For meaningful evaluations of AI transcription tools that incorporate risks, capabilities and user interactions, a range of metrics will likely be required to gain a holistic picture of the system in practice. Below we offer some example approaches and metrics for evaluating AI transcription tools that are drawn from the field of natural language processing (NLP). The approaches demonstrate how multiple different metrics could be used to assess a particular target of evaluation, e.g. model performance. We focus on approaches for human-led evaluations, as opposed to automated evaluations that use large language models (LLMs) to assess target metrics (a method known as ‘LLM-as-a-judge’). [53 ] Focus of evaluation: Transcription tool performance (accuracy) Target/metric of evaluation Method Benefits and pitfalls Researchers want to test the accuracy of a transcription capability (how well the tool faithfully captures a conversation). They use the word error rate (WER) metric to assess the accuracy of the transcript. Researchers use an established quantitative metric, tallying the sum of errors (deletions, insertions, substitutions) in the transcript, which is divided by the total number of words in the transcript to produce a WER score. One benefit of using WER is that it is a routinised, quantitative metric. However, one pitfall is that using WER may not support mitigation to improve system performance: using WER simply identifies that errors are present, it does not indicate where or how the transcription error is occurring. [54] Focus of evaluation: Transcription tool efficacy in context Target/metric of evaluation Method Benefits and pitfalls Researchers want to test whether the introduction of a transcription tool has led to more efficient transcription for clinical notes, compared with the existing process of manually typing notes. They use the metric of time savings (percentage). Researchers design a controlled experiment to compare results from two groups: one group transcribing an hour-long recording via typed notes (Group A) and one group transcribing an hour-long recording using an AI transcription tool (Group B). They compare the mean of the time taken by Group A with the mean of Group B, and calculate the time savings as a percentage (Group B saved 50% of the time of Group A when preparing clinical notes). This approach benefits from using a simple, reproducible research design with an established counterfactual. This method design also limits the impact of self-reporting bias, where evidence shows people often overestimate time savings on tasks compared to the ground truth figure. [55] A potential pitfall is that the identified savings in test conditions do not correlate with real-world usage of the tool. Focus of evaluation: Societal impact Target/metric of evaluation Method Benefits and pitfalls Researchers want to test whether a transcription tool introduces bias against users belonging to minority ethnic groups. They use a word error rate (WER) metric to determine accuracy for speakers from a range of ethnic groups. Researchers calculate the WER for a selection of transcripts of speakers from a range of ethnic groups. They then calculate whether there are significant statistical differences in the WER for different ethnic groups. This example is one method to identify how WER might change under certain conditions and for different potential user groups – highlighting instances where marginalised communities might be further discriminated against via use of AI. Focus of evaluation: User experience Target/metric of evaluation Method Benefits and pitfalls Developers of a tool want to generate qualitative evidence about user experiences of AI transcription tools and whether workers believe they support meaningful work. The developers commission an ethnography observing probation officers using AI transcription tools to prepare mock case notes in a simulated interaction with a person on probation. This enables researchers to gather real-time insights around the user journey of the tool to identify common practices and potential edge cases. This approach allows for an inductive exploration of experiences and attitudes towards the tool – including from the perspective of a person on probation – that goes beyond an assessment of tool efficacy or capability. This method may be supported through evaluations with a technical focus to understand how specific tool outputs facilitate certain user experiences. Current evaluations and assessments of AI transcription tools In the following section, we synthesise some recent evaluations of AI transcription tools in the UK public sector. While not an exhaustive list, these three studies provide useful evidence of emerging AI evaluation metrics in practice. They showcase recent efforts towards evidence gathering on the effectiveness of consequential applications of AI in the public sector, such as transcription tools. Kingston Council’s co-piloting of Beam’s Magic Notes In 2024, Kingston Council supported the piloting of a prominent AI transcription tool used in the public sector, Beam’s Magic Notes. Magic Notes is a transcription tool specifically tailored for social work contexts, supporting transcriptions of meetings and the preparation of case notes and assessments. It is estimated that over 80 councils in the UK are currently using Magic Notes in social work contexts. [56] Kingston Council worked with Beam in a user research capacity, testing and evaluating the transcription tool to adapt the existing product for use by social workers on mobile phones. The approach involved training Magic Notes with anonymised data from templates and assessments from council social workers and checking the outputs met the required standards for the council, including populating the correct fields within the case management system. [57] The pilot also explored the time-saving ability and value for money of Magic Notes, finding an average time saving of over 50 per cent and an accuracy of 96 per cent in the transcripts. As an early pilot of the real-world capabilities of an emerging AI transcription tool in the public sector, the study and its publicly available evidence may have informed wider uptake of Magic Notes. Department for Business and Trade and Department for Work and Pensions’ evaluations of Microsoft Copilot The UK’s Department for Business and Trade (DBT) and Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) have both conducted multi-month pilots and evaluations of Microsoft Copilot, a generative AI tool with wide-ranging capabilities, including transcription and summarisation. Both evaluations collect data via self-reporting surveys. The DBT survey aimed to measure on use cases , satisfaction , accuracy and time savings . One thousand Copilot licences were allocated to volunteer and randomly selected participants from across the department, with a control group for comparison. [58] The DWP evaluation adopted a quasi-experimental design, using a control group and complementing the survey with qualitative interviews to measure staff experiences , perceived usefulness and the impact on task efficiency , job satisfaction and work quality . [59] The DWP also used an econometric model called Seemingly Unrelated Regression (SUR) to capture the interdependency of the outcomes of task efficiency, job satisfaction and work quality. In the DBT evaluation, ‘Transcribing or summarising a meeting’ was the most popular use of Copilot among the use cases identified by participants, with 89 per cent of participants ‘satisfied’ with this capability. The evaluation also found that ‘transcribing or summarising a meeting’ using Copilot saved on average 0.7 hours per task, one of the higher time savings identified in the study. However, the study also noted that the link between time savings and increased productivity among participants was not conclusive. This suggests multistage or multifactor evaluations may be required to make robust empirical claims that time savings lead to improved productivity, which may include more longitudinal data gathering. In the DWP evaluation, using Copilot for ‘Transcribing or summarising meetings’ was found to save on average nine minutes, and ‘Summarising information or research’ saved 24 minutes. The qualitative interviews revealed that time savings were often redirected towards ‘higher value’ work, including ‘project delivery, planning, and mentoring’. The statistically significant effects on all three outcome measures are a positive result for this study, though the authors highlight the importance of human-in-the-loop for tasks involving ‘nuance, sensitive content, or stakeholder-facing outputs’. Both studies are limited by self-selection bias among their participant base. The use of self-reporting for measures like job satisfaction can introduce biases such as social desirability bias, where responses are tailored according to societal expectations. [60] Centre for Policing Research and Learning’s evaluation of Hertfordshire Constabulary’s ‘ADA’ transcription tool The Centre for Policing Research and Learning at the Open University conducted an evaluation of Hertfordshire Constabulary’s ‘ADA’ (Anathem Digital Assistant) transcription tool, designed to transcribe and produce witness statement documentation. The purpose of the evaluation was to assess whether the tool led to increased productivity and quality of statements. [61] The evaluation adopted a mixed-methods approach, combining interviews with police officer using the tool and various metrics from linguistic theory to determine the quality of AI-produced transcripts. These included the Flesch readability score, [62] which is a metric for evaluating a text for how easy it is to understand. The researchers in this study highlight how assessing the transcripts through a broader lens enabled them to look beyond accuracies or inaccuracies, and to judge whether the completed transcript reflected the overall language and tone of the witness’s original statement. They found that the use of ADA did result in time savings, but they could not evidence any ‘realisable claims’ around productivity, recommending that future productivity assessments in this domain would need to operate ‘end to end’ to provide a more well-rounded picture of the impact of the AI transcription tool on work and practice. The team concluded that the study did not indicate sufficient proof of concept that ADA would increase productivity, but indicated that a forthcoming second version of the tool ‘may improve significantly in terms of performance’. [63] Lessons from emerging evaluations of AI transcription tools As highlighted in the UK government’s guidance for conducting impact evaluations of AI, organisations should approach evaluations with good faith. A major incentive to conduct evaluations is to gain helpful insights and to learn about the tool’s impact. However, the findings of the above evaluations offer several important lessons for informing ongoing evaluations of AI transcription tools, as detailed below. Time saving is a prevailing metric for evaluations, but it is not always instrumental to ‘productivity’ The three studies above all show evidence that the transcription and summarisation functions of AI transcription tools are reducing time spent on drafting, which is promising for further adoption of these tools. However, two of the studies do not show evidence that this straightforwardly translates to improved productivity. Additional requirements may be needed within organisations, such as training and longer-term evidence gathering or the introduction of an alternative tool, to ensure that productivity benefits are fully realised. More importantly, further research that specifically measures the costs and gains of AI transcription tools in a range of organisational contexts will be needed to understand the degree to which time savings empirically contribute to increased productivity. Accuracy on its own may be an insufficient metric to evidence the efficacy of AI transcription tools in context For contexts where a holistic interpretation of a conversation is important, such as a witness statement, additional metrics may be required to measure details that may be omitted by transcription or summarisation capabilities. Additional human safeguards to thoroughly check transcripts – for example, for erroneous detail inserted superfluously – will likely be required. There are also likely to be scenarios where details in transcripts are faithful to the conversation but may contain tonal or linguistic shifts that have an impact on the interpretation of meaning. This type of impact will be much harder to track at a single user level, and may require evaluations against non-AI generated transcripts, or comparisons with different AI transcription tools. Overall, the evidence from these three studies underscores that AI transcription tools will require an iterative, sociotechnical-informed approach to evaluation that prioritises grounded evidence from real-world impacts, beyond just efficiency and time savings. How are AI transcription tools used in the public sector? UK public services are facing significant financial challenges and the implementation of AI tools, such as transcription tools, is part of a broader government strategy to improve the efficiency and quality of public services, as outlined in the government’s AI Opportunities Action Plan. [64] The UK government has demonstrated sustained interest in the potential for AI transcription tools to create impactful transformation. Multiple AI transcription tools were included in the government’s AI Exemplars Programme in August 2025. [65] The potential for transcription tools is focused on frontline public services, where it is important to maintain a written record of interactions between service providers and service users. Official documentation helps ensure that public services provide people with the support they need, that correct procedures are followed and that people experience consistent care over time. Effective documentation can also help individuals who draw on public services understand how frontline workers made decisions and act as a resource for understanding interactions with public services that impacted their lives, as well as supporting redress when things go wrong. [66] However, producing official documentation can be time consuming for frontline workers who often have a significant backlog of people who need to draw on their support. AI transcription tools could potentially allow frontline workers to provide essential services more efficiently by reducing the amount of time they spend documenting interactions. In this context, AI transcription tools are being adopted or recommended for several public services, notably social care, healthcare and the justice system. All three sectors are experiencing acute resourcing challenges. In 2023–2024, only 31 per cent of requests for local authority-funded adult social care resulted in support being given. [67] In healthcare, the median waiting time for patients in England to start treatment was 13.4 weeks in June 2025, and192,000 people had waited over a year for treatment. [68] In the justice sector, backlogs have grown significantly in recent years, to the point where the Crown Court of England and Wales had around 75,000 outstanding cases at the end of 2024. [69] Examples of transcription tools used in UK public services Social care Social workers spend most of their working time completing documentation processes and recording interactions with people who draw on their care. [70] As a result, staff in both adult and children’s social care have begun to use AI transcription tools to record conversations and automatically generate official documentation such as care plans (a personalised document outlining the specific support a person or family requires for their wellbeing). AI transcription tools have been adopted rapidly in social care because the sector faces significant resource challenges. Increasing demand for social care, coupled with local authority budget cuts, means that people who need care are often unable to receive it from their local authority. [71] Resource shortages and growing workloads are also impacting the wellbeing of social workers themselves, with social workers reporting high levels of stress and concern about their ability to adequately support people who draw on their care. [72] Multiple local authorities are adopting AI transcription tools for social care contexts, but there is no nationally representative data to understand how many social workers are using this technology across the UK. Local authorities can procure AI transcription tools from independent developers or develop their own AI transcription tools. Incumbent providers of social care data management platforms have also started to develop their own AI transcription tools that they provide to their existing customers. The Ada Lovelace Institute is focusing on the application of AI transcription tools in social care contexts through our ‘Transcribing trust’ research project, which aims to understand how these tools impact social care practice. Healthcare Researchers have estimated that over 100 companies provide AI transcription tools for healthcare applications worldwide. [73] The UK government is beginning to recommend the use of transcription tools in meetings between healthcare professionals and patients to reduce backlogs and cost pressures and allow frontline staff to spend more time with patients. [74] The UK’s leading digital healthcare platform launched its own AI transcription tool in April 2025 and provides this as part of its platform services to 98 per cent of GP practices in England, with plans to extend the rollout to hospital and mental health settings. [75] Given the range of transcription tools available for healthcare practitioners, NHS England has published a set of standards to support clinicians in using these tools safely, detailing recommended technical features and the ongoing monitoring required. [76] NHS England’s current position is that ‘ambient scribing products’ with a summarisation capability should be registered as a medical device under the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Authority (MHRA) Class I device status. [77] Liability for using an AI transcription tool that does not comply with guidance and regulation rests with individual users or the organisations (such as general practitioners or NHS trusts) deploying the tool. [78] Justice Similarly, the UK government is trialling the use of AI transcription tools in the justice system, to reduce the amount of time that frontline staff spend documenting interactions. This is part of a broader strategy to integrate AI into the justice system, as outlined in the AI Action Plan for Justice. [79] At the time of writing, AI transcription tools have been piloted in multiple parts of the justice system. The government is conducting pilots of AI transcription tools in probation services in Kent, Surrey, Sussex and Wales. [80] The government plans to roll out its Justice Transcribe tool to all 12,000 probation officers after it has been piloted. [81] Police forces have also used AI transcription tools. Hertfordshire Constabulary piloted a tool for automatically generating witness statements in domestic abuse cases based on interviews conducted by police officers. [82] Outside of the UK, AI transcription tools have also been used to generate police reports based on audio recordings from police body cameras. [83] Challenges in deploying transcription tools in public sector contexts The use of AI transcription tools in public sector contexts creates additional challenges. While we do not examine these comprehensively in this explainer, we have highlighted two significant challenges below. Evidence about safe, fair and transparent deployment of AI in the public sector is still emerging Public sector bodies may lack sufficient expertise and resources to adequately evaluate AI tools. Our previous research has shown that technological uncertainty about how AI works and the outsized market power of AI developers are impacting how well local authorities are able to procure and evaluate AI tools. [84] This is further exacerbated by the fact that specialist evaluators and engineers can command higher salaries in the private sector and might therefore be unwilling to work for the public sector. [85] Furthermore, the guidance and legislation surrounding the procurement and evaluation of AI tools in the public sector is difficult to implement in practice. There are multiple definitions and measures of social benefit that public bodies use when evaluating AI tools, but current guidance lacks specificity about where particular definitions are more appropriate and how to operationalise them. [86] Official guidance also uses multiple definitions of AI and key AI-related concepts like ‘fairness’ and ‘transparency’. [87] The resulting lack of clarity often forces public bodies that lack expertise in AI to fill in the gaps on their own. [88] These ecosystem-level difficulties in conducting effective evaluations pose a significant challenge to the fair and transparent use of AI transcription tools in the public sector. AI transcription tools raise questions about accountability, fairness and procedural justice in public service provision The public sector is subject to higher standards of scrutiny than the private sector. Public officials have a commitment to accountability and fairness through legislation, such as the Public Sector Equality Duty [89] and the guiding values of public service, such as the Seven Principles of Public Life. [90] However, AI tools present challenges to these expectations because they can significantly influence how official documents reflect the experiences of the people that they pertain to. The summarisation of people’s experiences to create official records requires professionals to sort, select and prioritise information about a person for the context in question, from children in social care to victims of crime. [91] When AI transcription tools make these decisions, it reduces the control of professionals over the official records they create. This raises challenges relating to accountability if frontline professionals are held responsible for decisions over which they had limited control. It will also make it challenging for people who use public services to seek redress when things go wrong. Additionally, the way AI transcription tools present information will often be biased (see the previous section ‘What are AI transcription tools?’). Biases in official documentation processes can perpetuate inequalities in people’s experience of public services in significant ways. For example, one study of the use of LLMs to summarise long-term care records from an English local authority found that some models consistently downplayed women’s health issues and needs compared to those of men. [92] Conclusion This explainer aims to provide policymakers and those working in the public sector with a practical understanding of AI transcription tools by describing their technical features, examining their use in frontline public services and synthesising the current approaches to evaluation. We have identified that AI transcription tools could be useful for public sector workers, in the face of resource challenges and demanding workloads, by reducing the burden of administrative work that they must complete. However, these tools pose the same risks as any other technology powered by foundation models. Currently, there is not enough evidence on how these potential risks and benefits are materialising in the diverse contexts in which AI transcription tools are being deployed. As a result, the UK public sector could benefit from additional evaluations of the use of AI transcription tools, through pilots or other interventions. Metrics like accuracy and time savings are popular in evaluations but should be supported with wider investigations to understand whether anticipated benefits of transcription tools are being realised and that potential harms are avoided. Moreover, public sector agencies would benefit from the collation and synthesis of empirical evidence from the deployment of AI transcription tools in multiple contexts over longer periods of time. Siloed evaluations over short time frames risk missing the systemic impacts of AI transcription tools that could negatively impact the experiences of people who draw on public services. Such interventions will better enable AI transcription tools to create meaningful value in public sector contexts. Acknowledgements This explainer was co-authored by Oliver Bruff and Lara Groves, with substantive contributions from Mavis Machirori and Catherine Gregory. Endnotes [1] Tommaso Spinelli, Senior Artificial Intelligence Change Manager, and GDS, ‘Launching the Artificial Intelligence Playbook for the UK Government – Government Digital Service’ (10 February 2025) < https://gds.blog.gov.uk/2025/02/10/launching-the-artificial-intelligence-playbook-for-the-uk-govern… accessed 29 September 2025. [2] ‘AI Opportunities Action Plan’ ( GOV.UK ) < https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-pla… accessed 19 August 2025. [3] ‘Use of AI Rising among Social Workers, Poll Finds’ (Community Care, June 2025) <https://www.communitycare.co.uk/2025/06/12/use-of-ai-rising-among-social-workers-poll-finds/> accessed 29 September 2025. [4] ‘10 Year Health Plan for England: Fit for the Future’ (GOV.UK, 30 July 2025) <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/10-year-health-plan-for-england-fit-for-the-future> accessed 29 September 2025. [5] ‘AI Action Plan for Justice’ (GOV.UK) <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-action-plan-for-justice> accessed 29 September 2025. [6] ‘AI Exemplars Programme’ (GOV.UK) <https://www.gov.uk/guidance/ai-exemplars-programme> accessed 29 September 2025. [7] Elliot Jones, ‘What Is a Foundation Model?’ (Ada Lovelace Institute, 2023) <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/resource/foundation-models-explainer/> accessed 31 July 2025. [8] ‘AI-Enabled Ambient Scribing Products in Health and Care Settings’ (NHS England) <https://www.england.nhs.uk/long-read/ai-enabled-ambient-scribing-products-in-health-and-care-settings/> accessed 29 September 2025. [9] Elliot Jones, ‘What Is a Foundation Model?’ (Ada Lovelace Institute, 2023) <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/resource/foundation-models-explainer/> accessed 31 July 2025. [10] Rohit Prabhavalkar and others, ‘End-to-End Speech Recognition: A Survey’ (arXiv, 3 March 2023) <http://arxiv.org/abs/2303.03329> accessed 10 July 2025. [11] Hanin Atwany and others, ‘Lost in Transcription, Found in Distribution Shift: Demystifying Hallucination in Speech Foundation Models’ (arXiv, 18 February 2025) <http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.12414> accessed 24 April 2025. [12] Elliot Jones, ‘What Is a Foundation Model?’ (Ada Lovelace Institute, July 2023) <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/resource/foundation-models-explainer/> accessed 31 July 2025. [13] Laura Weidinger and others, ‘Ethical and Social Risks of Harm from Language Models’ (arXiv, 8 December 2021) <http://arxiv.org/abs/2112.04359> accessed 13 August 2025. [14] Merlin Stein and Connor Dunlop, ‘Safe before Sale’ (Ada Lovelace Institute<https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/report/safe-before-sale/> accessed 4 September 2025. [15] Allison Koenecke and others, ‘Careless Whisper: Speech-to-Text Hallucination Harms’ (The 2024 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency, 2024) <http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08021> accessed 24 April 2025. [16] Laura Weidinger and others, ‘Ethical and Social Risks of Harm from Language Models’ (arXiv, 8 December 2021) <http://arxiv.org/abs/2112.04359> accessed 13 August 2025. [17] Jiarui Li, Ye Yuan and Zehua Zhang, ‘Enhancing LLM Factual Accuracy with RAG to Counter Hallucinations: A Case Study on Domain-Specific Queries in Private Knowledge-Bases’ (arXiv, 15 March 2024) <http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10446> accessed 28 January 2026. [18] Laura Carter and others, ‘Critical Analytics? Learning from the Early Adoption of Data Analytics for Local Authority Service Delivery’ (Ada Lovelace Institute, 2023) <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/report/local-authority-data-analytics/> accessed 10 September 2025. [19] Ida Lindgren, ‘Ironies of Automation and Their Implications for Public Service Automation’ (2024) 41 Government Information Quarterly 101974 <https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0740624X24000662> accessed 13 August 2025. [20] Dr Paul Walley and Dr Helen Glasspoole-Bird, ‘An Evaluation of the Pilot Application of Artificial Intelligence to Witness Statement and Report Generation at Hertfordshire Constabulary’ (2025) <https://university.open.ac.uk/centres/policing/research/digitally-enabled-policing/345-herts-ai-test-and-learn> accessed 3 September 2025. [21] ‘AI Knowledge Hub’ (GOV.UK) <https://ai.gov.uk/knowledge-hub/> accessed 21 August 2025. [22] Simon Guerrier, ‘“Magic Notes” AI Tool Saves Social Workers Time on Admin’ (Social Care Today, 2024) <https://socialcare.today/2024/09/26/magic-notes-ai-tool-saves-social-workers-time-on-admin/> accessed 21 August 2025. [23] ‘Fit for the Future: 10 Year Health Plan for England’ (GOV.UK) <https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/6888a0996478525675738f3a/fit-for-the-future-10-year-health-plan-for-england-executive-summary.pdf> accessed 19 August 2025. [24] ‘AI Action Plan for Justice’ (GOV.UK) <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-action-plan-for-justice/ai-action-plan-for-justice> accessed 19 August 2025. [25] ‘BASW Statement on Social Work and Generative Artificial’ (British Association of Social Workers, 21 March 2025) <https://basw.co.uk/policy-and-practice/resources/basw-statement-social-work-and-generative-artificial-intelligence> accessed 19 August 2025. [26] ‘Neurodiversity at Work: The Power of AI-Driven (The Access Group) <https://www.theaccessgroup.com/en-gb/blog/neurodiversity-at-work-the-power-of-ai-driven-support/> accessed 20 August 2025. [27] Elliot Jones, ‘What Is a Foundation Model?’ (Ada Lovelace Institute, 2023) <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/resource/foundation-models-explainer/> accessed 31 July 2025 [28] Ziwei Xu, Sanjay Jain and Mohan Kankanhalli, ‘Hallucination Is Inevitable: An Innate Limitation of Large Language Models’ (arXiv, 13 February 2025) <http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11817> accessed 29 September 2025. [29] Allison Koenecke and others, ‘Careless Whisper: Speech-to-Text Hallucination Harms’, The 2024 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency (2024) <http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08021> accessed 24 April 2025. [30] Ajinkya Kulkarni and others, ‘Unveiling Biases While Embracing Sustainability: Assessing the Dual Challenges of Automatic Speech Recognition Systems’, Interspeech 2024 (ISCA 2024) <https://www.isca-archive.org/interspeech_2024/kulkarni24_interspeech.html> accessed 6 February 2025; Li-Fang Lai and Nicole Holliday, ‘Exploring Sources of Racial Bias in Automatic Speech Recognition through the Lens of Rhythmic Variation’, INTERSPEECH 2023 (ISCA 2023) <https://www.isca-archive.org/interspeech_2023/lai23_interspeech.html> accessed 11 June 2025. [31] Allison Koenecke and others, ‘Careless Whisper: Speech-to-Text Hallucination Harms’, The 2024 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency (2024) <http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08021> accessed 24 April 2025. [32] Elliot Jones, ‘Foundation Models in the Public Sector’ (Ada Lovelace Institute 2023) <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/evidence-review/foundation-models-public-sector/> accessed 13 August 2025. [33] Sam Rickman, ‘Evaluating Gender Bias in Large Language Models in Long-Term Care’ (2025) 25 BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making 274 <https://doi.org/10.1186/s12911-025-03118-0> accessed 21 August 2025. [34] ‘ACLU White Paper on Police Departments’ Use of AI to Draft Police Reports’ ( American Civil Liberties Union ) <https://www.aclu.org/documents/aclu-on-police-departments-use-of-ai-to-draft-police-reports> accessed 21 July 2025. [35] Beatrice Nolan, ‘UK Health Service AI Tool Generated a Set of False Diagnoses for a Patient’ ( Fortune ) <https://fortune.com/2025/07/20/uk-health-service-ai-tool-false-diagnoses-patient-screening-nhs-anima-health-annie/> accessed 24 July 2025. [36] Allison Koenecke and others, ‘Careless Whisper: Speech-to-Text Hallucination Harms’, The 2024 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency (2024) <http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08021> accessed 24 April 2025 [37] Isabel Barberá, ‘AI Privacy Risks & Mitigations Large Language Models (LLMs)’ (EDPB, 2025) <https://www.edpb.europa.eu/system/files/2025-04/ai-privacy-risks-and-mitigations-in-llms.pdf> accessed 3 September 2025. [38] Elliot Jones, ‘Foundation Models in the Public Sector’ (Ada Lovelace Institute 2023) <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/evidence-review/foundation-models-public-sector/> accessed 13 August 2025. [39] Thomas Dratsch and others, ‘Automation Bias in Mammography: The Impact of Artificial Intelligence BI-RADS Suggestions on Reader Performance’ (2023) 307 Radiology e222176 <https://pubs.rsna.org/doi/10.1148/radiol.222176> accessed 29 September 2025. [40] ‘Guidance on the Use of AI-Enabled Ambient Scribing Products in Health and Care Settings’ (NHS England) <https://www.england.nhs.uk/long-read/guidance-on-the-use-of-ai-enabled-ambient-scribing-products-in-health-and-care-settings/> accessed 28 April 2025. [41] Dr Paul Walley and Dr Helen Glasspoole-Bird, ‘An Evaluation of the Pilot Application of Artificial Intelligence to Witness Statement and Report Generation at Hertfordshire Constabulary’ (2025) <https://university.open.ac.uk/centres/policing/research/digitally-enabled-policing/345-herts-ai-test-and-learn> accessed 3 September 2025.. [42] Rebecca O’Keefe, ‘Case Recording in Child Protection: An Exploration of the Evidence Base and Good Practice’ (2024) 33 Child Abuse Review e2894 <https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/car.2894> accessed 3 September 2025. [43] Tekendra Parmar, ‘Government Documents Show Police Disabling AI Oversight Tools’ ( Mother Jones ) <https://www.motherjones.com/criminal-justice/2025/08/axon-police-ai-draft-one-foia/> accessed 29 September 2025. [44] Sam Rickman, ‘Evaluating Gender Bias in Large Language Models in Long-Term Care’ (2025) 25 BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making 274 <https://doi.org/10.1186/s12911-025-03118-0> accessed 21 August 2025. [45] Sofia Morandini and others ‘The Impact of Artificial Intelligence on Workers’ Skills: Upskilling and Reskilling in Organisations’ (2023) 26 Informing Science: The International Journal of an Emerging Transdiscipline <https://www.informingscience.org/Publications/5078> accessed 5 September 2025 . [46] Sofia Morandini and others ‘The Impact of Artificial Intelligence on Workers’ Skills: Upskilling and Reskilling in Organisations’ (2023) 26 Informing Science: The International Journal of an Emerging Transdiscipline <https://www.informingscience.org/Publications/5078> accessed 5 September 2025. [47] Elliot Jones, Mahi Hardalupas and William Agnew, ‘Under the Radar?’ (Ada Lovelace Institute 2024) <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/report/under-the-radar/> accessed 4 March 2025 [48] Evani Radiya-Dixit, ‘Adopting More Holistic Approaches to Assess the Impacts of AI Systems’ (Center for Democracy and Technology, 2025) <https://cdt.org/insights/adopting-more-holistic-approaches-to-assess-the-impacts-of-ai-systems/> accessed 29 September 2025. [49] ‘Exploring Different Objectives in Non-Inferiority <https://www.bmj.com/content/385/bmj-2023-078000> accessed 29 September 2025. [50] Introducing the Careful Consequence Check’ (Careful Industries, 2025) <https://www.careful.industries/blog/2025-11-introducing-the-careful-consequence-check> accessed 25 November 2025. [51] Katelyn Xiaoying Mei and others, ‘Addressing Pitfalls in Auditing Practices of Automatic Speech Recognition Technologies: A Case Study of People with Aphasia’ (arXiv, 11 July 2025) <http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.08846> accessed 16 July 2025. [52] Anna Smerdiagina, ‘Lost in Transcription: Experimental Findings on Ethnic and Age Biases in AI Systems’ (2024) 9 Junior Management Science (JUMS) 1591 <https://www.econstor.eu/handle/10419/305308> accessed 29 September 2025. [53] Aymeric Roucher, ‘Using LLM-as-a-Judge🧑‍⚖️ for an Automated and Versatile Evaluation: Hugging Face Open-Source AI Cookbook’ (Hugging Face) <https://huggingface.co/learn/cookbook/en/llm_judge> accessed 8 January 2026. [54] Hugging Face, ‘WER: A Hugging Face Space by Evaluate-Metric’ <https://huggingface.co/spaces/evaluate-metric/wer> accessed 29 September 2025. [55] Petrus te Braak and others, ‘Data Quality and Recall Bias in Time-Diary Research: The Effects of Prolonged Recall Periods in Self-Administered Online Time-Use Surveys’ (2023) 53 Sociological Methodology 115 <https://doi.org/10.1177/00811750221126499> accessed 28 January 2026. [56] Anastasia Koutsounia, ‘AI Tool Improves Direct Work in Adult Social Care despite Accuracy Concerns, Practitioners Report (Community Care, 2025) <https://www.communitycare.co.uk/2025/02/10/ai-tool-adult-social-care-accuracy-issues-practitioners-report/> accessed 29 September 2025. [57] ‘Kingston Council: Using AI in Adult Social Care Administration’ (Local Government Association) <https://www.local.gov.uk/case-studies/kingston-council-using-ai-adult-social-care-administration> accessed 29 September 2025. [58] ‘The Evaluation of the M365 Copilot Pilot in the Department for Business and Trade’ (GOV.UK) <https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/68adbe409e1cebdd2c96a19d/dbt-microsoft-365-copilot-evaluation.pdf> accessed 21 October 2025 [59] ‘An Evaluation of DWP’s Microsoft 365 Copilot Trial’ ( GOV.UK ) <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/an-evaluation-of-dwps-microsoft-copilot-365-trial/an-evaluation-of-dwps-microsoft-365-copilot-trial> accessed 3 February 2026. [60] The Decision Lab – Behavioral Science, Applied.’ ( The Decision Lab ) <https://thedecisionlab.com/reference-guide/psychology/social-desirability-bias> accessed 3 February 2026. [61] Dr Paul Walley and Dr Helen Glasspoole-Bird, ‘An Evaluation of the Pilot Application of Artificial Intelligence to Witness Statement and Report Generation at Hertfordshire Constabulary’ (2025) <https://university.open.ac.uk/centres/policing/research/digitally-enabled-policing/345-herts-ai-test-and-learn> accessed 3 September 2025. [62] Pranay Jindal and Joy C MacDermid, ‘Assessing Reading Levels of Health Information: Uses and Limitations of Flesch Formula’ (2017) 30 Education for Health (Abingdon, England) 84. [63] Dr Paul Walley and Dr Helen Glasspoole-Bird, ‘An Evaluation of the Pilot Application of Artificial Intelligence to Witness Statement and Report Generation at Hertfordshire Constabulary’ (The Open University, 2025) <https://university.open.ac.uk/centres/policing/research/digitally-enabled-policing/345-herts-ai-test-and-learn> accessed 3 September 2025. [64] ‘AI Opportunities Action Plan’ (GOV.UK) <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan> accessed 19 August 2025 [65] ‘AI Exemplars Programme’ (GOV.UK) <https://www.gov.uk/guidance/ai-exemplars-programme> accessed 29 September 2025. [66] Victoria Hoyle and others, ‘Child Social-Care Recording and the Information Rights of Care-Experienced People: A Recordkeeping Perspective’ (2019) 49 The British Journal of Social Work 1856 <https://doi.org/10.1093/bjsw/bcy115> accessed 21 August 2025. [67] ‘Key facts and figures about adult social care’ (The King’s Fund) <https://www.kingsfund.org.uk/insight-and-analysis/data-and-charts/key-facts-figures-adult-social-care> accessed 21 October 2025 [68] ‘NHS Backlog Data Analysis’ (The British Medical Association) <https://www.bma.org.uk/advice-and-support/nhs-delivery-and-workforce/pressures/nhs-backlog-data-analysis> accessed 1 September 2025. [69] Magdalena Domínguez, Joe Tomlinson and Ben Zaranko, ‘Crown Court Backlog Exacerbated by Post-Pandemic Productivity Slump’ (Institute for Fiscal Studies, 6 June 2025) <https://ifs.org.uk/news/crown-court-backlog-exacerbated-post-pandemic-productivity-slump> accessed 4 September 2025. [70] ‘80-20 Campaign: How much ‘direct’ time do social workers spend with children and families?’ (British Association of Social Workers) <https://basw.co.uk/sites/default/files/2023-08/FINAL%2080-20%20report.pdf> accessed 21 October 2025 [71] ‘Adult Social Care: Key Facts And Figures’ (The King’s Fund) <https://www.kingsfund.org.uk/insight-and-analysis/data-and-charts/key-facts-figures-adult-social-care> accessed 1 September 2025. [72] UNISON, ‘Social Work and the Impact of the Covid Pandemic’ (2022) <https://www.unison.org.uk/content/uploads/2022/06/26799-social-work-survey-FULL-final.pdf> accessed 1 September 2025. [73] Abi Eccles and others, ‘Unintended Consequences of Using Ambient Scribes in General Practice’ (2025) 390 BMJ e085754 <https://www.bmj.com/content/390/bmj-2025-085754> accessed 28 August 2025. [74] ‘Fit for the Future: 10 Year Health Plan for England’ (GOV.UK) <https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/6888a0996478525675738f3a/fit-for-the-future-10-year-health-plan-for-england-executive-summary.pdf> accessed 19 August 2025. [75] Jordan Sollof, ‘Accurx and Tandem Health Roll Out AI Scribing Tool across the NHS’ (Digital Health, 29 April 2025) <https://www.digitalhealth.net/2025/04/accurx-and-tandem-health-partner-to-roll-out-ai-scribing-in-the-nhs/> accessed 28 August 2025. [76] ‘AI-Enabled Ambient Scribing Products in Health and Care Settings’ (NHS England, 2025) <https://www.england.nhs.uk/long-read/ai-enabled-ambient-scribing-products-in-health-and-care-settings/> accessed 21 October 2025. [77] Russell Brown, ‘AI Ambient Scribing – NHS England Warning and Provisional LMC Guidance’ (Surrey and Sussex LMCS, 24 September 2025) <https://www.sslmcs.co.uk/news/ai-ambient-scribing/> accessed 29 September 2025. [78] ETHOS, ‘New AI Voice Technology Rules: Is Your NHS Organisation Compliant?’ (ETHOS, 27 June 2025) <https://ethos.co.im/new-ai-voice-technology-rules-is-your-nhs-organisation-compliant/> accessed 29 September 2025. [79] ‘AI Action Plan for Justice’ (GOV.UK) <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-action-plan-for-justice/ai-action-plan-for-justice> accessed 19 August 2022. [80] ‘AI Action Plan for Justice’ (GOV.UK) <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-action-plan-for-justice/ai-action-plan-for-justice> accessed 19 August 2022. [81] ‘AI to Cut Paperwork to Free up Doctors’ Time for Patients’ (GOV.UK) <https://www.gov.uk/government/news/ai-to-cut-paperwork-to-free-up-doctors-time-for-patients> accessed 3 September 2025. [82] Dr Paul Walley and Dr Helen Glasspoole-Bird, ‘An Evaluation of the Pilot Application of Artificial Intelligence to Witness Statement and Report Generation at Hertfordshire Constabulary’ (The Open University, 2025) <https://university.open.ac.uk/centres/policing/research/digitally-enabled-policing/345-herts-ai-test-and-learn> accessed 3 September 2025. [83] ‘ACLU White Paper on Police Departments’ Use of AI to Draft Police Reports’ (American Civil Liberties Union) <https://www.aclu.org/documents/aclu-on-police-departments-use-of-ai-to-draft-police-reports> accessed 21 July 2025. [84] Mavis Machirori and Anna Studman, ‘Spending Wisely’ (Ada Lovelace Institute, 2024) <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/report/spending-wisely-procurement/> accessed 4 March 2025. [85] Elliot Jones and others, ‘Under the Radar?’ <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/report/under-the-radar/> accessed 28 April 2025. [86] Mavis Machirori and Anna Studman, ‘Buying AI – Is the Public Sector Equipped to Procure Technology in the Public Interest?’ (Ada Lovelace Institute, 2024) <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/Ada-Lovelace-Institute-Buying-AI.pdf> accessed 21 October 2025. [87] Mavis Machirori and Anna Studman, ‘Buying AI – Is the Public Sector Equipped to Procure Technology in the Public Interest?’ (Ada Lovelace Institute, 2024) <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/Ada-Lovelace-Institute-Buying-AI.pdf> accessed 21 October 2025. [88] Mavis Machirori and Anna Studman, ‘Spending Wisely’ (Ada Lovelace Institute, 2024) <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/report/spending-wisely-procurement/> accessed 4 March 2025. [89] ‘Public Sector Equality Duty’ (Equality and Human Rights Commission) <https://www.equalityhumanrights.com/en/advice-and-guidance/public-sector-equality-duty> accessed 2 September 2025. [90] ‘The Seven Principles of Public Life’ (GOV.UK) <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/the-7-principles-of-public-life/the-7-principles-of-public-life–2> accessed 2 September 2025. [91] Stella M Sieling-Monas and Marie L Meilvang, ‘The Practice of Social Work Documentation in an Age of Automatization: A Case from a Danish Municipal Job Centre’ (2025) 55 The British Journal of Social Work 2482 <https://academic.oup.com/bjsw/article/55/5/2482/8104249> accessed 1 September 2025. [92] Sam Rickman, ‘Evaluating Gender Bias in Large Language Models in Long-Term Care’ (2025) 25 BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making 274 <https://doi.org/10.1186/s12911-025-03118-0> accessed 21 August 2025. Authors Oliver Bruff Lara Groves
