---
institution: Ada Lovelace Institute
institution_slug: ada-lovelace
institution_type: think_tank
content_type: article
source_completeness: full_text
english_title: "Navigating the future"
chinese_title: "面向未来：青年职业指导中的AI图景"
published_date: 2026-04-13
source_url: https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/report/navigating-the-future/
pdf_url: https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/pdfs/34179/navigating-the-future.pdf?v=1776766032
pdf_status: 200 application/pdf
external_source_url: 
authors: ["Emily Tanner", "Renate Samson", "Emily Tanner", "Renate Samson"]
keywords: []
subjects: []
topic_tags: ["AI治理"]
priority: P1
score: 5
translation_level: full_or_long
copyright_boundary: private_archive
fetch_status: detail_ok
---

# 面向未来：青年职业指导中的AI图景

## 中文摘要与研判

该报告评估AI在青年职业指导中的应用机会、风险与治理条件。其重点不在单一工具效率，而在公共服务场景中，算法建议如何影响青年教育转向、职业选择和社会流动。对政策跟踪而言，教育、就业服务和AI采购规则之间的接口值得持续关注。

## 元数据

- 原始标题：Navigating the future
- 发布日期：2026-04-13
- 来源链接：https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/report/navigating-the-future/
- PDF链接：https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/pdfs/34179/navigating-the-future.pdf?v=1776766032
- 关键词：待抽取
- 主题标签：AI治理
- 优先级：P1

## English Source Material

Navigating the future | Ada Lovelace Institute Skip to content Project Education and AI Research domain Social and Economic Policy Keyword AI in the public sector Chapters Print this page Share this page How to read this paper This report is targeted at anyone with an interest in career development, young people’s transitions from education to work, or the role of AI in public services. No prior technical knowledge of AI or career guidance is assumed. We suggest reading the report in its entirety to gain a comprehensive understanding of AI development and adoption in career guidance, the associated opportunities and risks, and the implications for policy and practice. For those who want to engage with the content in a lighter touch way, we have suggested sections to prioritise. If you are new to AI or interested in learning what it is: Read the ‘ Introduction ’, ‘ What is AI? ’, ‘ Narrow AI in career guidance ’ and ‘ Foundation models in career guidance ’. If you are a career development practitioner: Read ‘ The current landscape of AI in career guidance ’ to understand where AI is used in different aspects of career guidance and young people’s transitions, and to find out about specific digital tools and the difference between narrow AI and foundation models. Read ‘ Opportunities and risks ’ to understand where the use of AI may support practice and where caution is needed. Read ‘ Foundations for appropriate, ethical and effective AI ’ in career guidance and the ‘ Recommendations ’ targeted at career development practitioners for ideas to support the beneficial use of AI. If you are a policymaker or regulator concerned with AI in career guidance or education more broadly: Read ‘ The current landscape of AI in career guidance ’ to understand the context of career guidance across the UK. Read the ‘ Executive summary ’, along with the summaries of the sections ‘ Opportunities and risks ’ and ‘ Foundations for appropriate, ethical and effective AI ’. Focus on ‘ Foundations for appropriate, ethical and effective AI ’ in career guidance and the ‘ Recommendations ’ targeted at policymakers. If you are an education leader, teacher, parent/carer or have a general interest: Read the ‘ Executive summary ’ for an overview. Focus on the ‘ Conclusion ’ section and the ‘ Recommendations ’ for education leaders. If you are a developer or designer building AI in EdTech: Read ‘ Career guidance terminology ’ and ‘ Implementation context ’ to understand the context of career guidance across the UK. Focus on ‘ Oversight and evaluation of foundation models ’ to gain a sense of the evaluations and oversight needed for AI to be safe and fit for purpose in a career guidance context. Read the ‘ Recommendations ’ for AI developers. If you are from the business community with a focus on recruitment or EDI: Read the ‘ Executive summary ’ and ‘ Conclusion ’ for an overview. Read ‘ The current landscape of AI in career guidance ’ to understand careers provision for young people and their engagement with AI. Focus on ‘ Widening access to employment ’ and ‘ Recommendations ’ for employers. If you are from the research community: Read the ‘ Executive summary ’, ‘ Evaluation frameworks and evidence ’ and ‘ Recommendations ’ for researchers and funders. Executive summary The current context for young people’s transitions from education to work is a challenging one. Technological transformation of the workplace is creating uncertainty for young people about what jobs might look like in the future and the skills and qualifications that will be needed. Competition for jobs is high, due to the contraction of opportunities and AI tools making it easier to apply for roles and increasing competition. Rising levels of economic inactivity reflect growing health and circumstantial challenges faced by young people. [1] Within this context, the combination of constrained resources for careers services and interest in the potential of AI is prompting career development practitioners to experiment with AI tools to deliver careers information, advice and guidance. Meanwhile, some young people are turning to AI in the hope of securing faster access to personalised support for careers and pathway decisions and for accessing employment. AI systems have been used for decades for matching individuals with career pathways and jobs, as well as for labour market analysis. In the early 2020s, the emergence of a new and more versatile form of AI, known as the foundation model, led to a surge of interest in potential uses of AI for career guidance. While foundation models can be used to develop task-specific AI systems, they are also capable of more general-purpose applications, and are substantially better at producing fluid, natural-language exchanges with users. However, this can be a confusing landscape unless a large amount of time is devoted to staying abreast of developments. For the majority, it is unclear how different types of AI work, what data they are trained on and how to ensure data privacy. For career development practitioners in particular, it is also unclear how to advise students on the way these new technologies are transforming employment and recruitment, and how to compare the effectiveness and value for money of different digital platforms and products. In the absence of adequate AI governance, it is difficult to assess how to balance the potential opportunities of AI against the risks, such as ill-informed career decision-making based on biased and inaccurate data, and threats to data privacy and safeguarding. As AI technologies proliferate, it is important that those making decisions about the use of AI in career guidance understand what AI is, how it works and the circumstances in which it may or may not be beneficial. All career development practitioners need to be able to guide young people in how AI might affect application processes and the workplace. The Nuffield Foundation, with its deep expertise in education and youth transitions, and the Ada Lovelace Institute, with its focus on the two-way relationship between AI and data-driven technologies and the people who are affected by them, have collaborated to explore this emerging field. Our aims were to bring greater clarity on the role of AI in career guidance and access to employment, to support policy and education experts to navigate these issues, and to highlight priorities for policy and further research. The report draws on engagement with 36 stakeholders from 22 organisations, including career development practitioners, educators, employers, technologists and policy officials from each of the UK nations and a literature review. Findings The landscape of AI in career guidance is characterised as follows: Narrow AI tools are well established within job matching, job recommendation systems and labour market analysis – aspects of careers information and advice. AI tools powered by foundation models – which can be both narrow and more general purpose – are emergent within UK career guidance. They are being explored for: improving access to careers information, providing a hybrid (human/digital) approach to careers advice and guidance, supporting equity and inclusion by providing personalised content, increasing efficiency for career practitioners, and widening access to employment by supporting job applications and interview preparation. Careers sector organisations and careers advisers are leading the development of career-specific technology and providing avenues for upskilling, but considerable further upskilling is needed for the sector to keep abreast of labour market changes, the implications for skills needs and how to ensure AI is used responsibly, ethically and in a way that adds value. Young people are using easily accessible AI tools such as ChatGPT for career exploration, though the rapid expansion of these technologies is causing considerable uncertainty about future career pathways and required skills. Although personalised AI tools for learners from disadvantaged backgrounds and with special educational needs and disabilities (SEND) is an area of interest within the wider education landscape, we heard very little about inclusive design or SEND-focused technology in a career guidance context. Frameworks exist to support AI career readiness through employer engagement activities, but more work is needed to embed AI skills learning across education and training. The UK nations are exploring the potential of AI within career guidance through different approaches, looking to international examples. Some stakeholders believe that AI has the potential to improve career decision-making, motivation and agency, employment outcomes for young people from marginalised communities, and the resource pressures faced by career development practitioners. However, for each area of opportunity there are risks, challenges and limitations of AI, including increased inequalities in access to guidance and employment, destabilisation of the careers profession resulting from skills erosion or funding, and risks to data privacy and security. Human choices about AI relating to product innovation, governance and implementation will determine how the opportunities and risks play out. Establishing appropriate, ethical and effective use of AI in a career guidance context requires a purpose-led approach, comprehensive workforce development and greater oversight and evaluation. Recommendations The decisions and actions of a wide range of stakeholders will influence the future development, implementation and impact of AI on young people’s transitions from education to work. We offer recommendations tailored to each stakeholder group to support positive and equitable outcomes for young people. Many of these recommendations also apply to adult career guidance and to EdTech more widely. Policymakers should: Invest in the careers infrastructure to ensure that education providers can give every young person access to personal guidance from a human professional in addition to appropriate digital support. Plan for ongoing workforce development for careers advisers and careers leaders. This should cover how to use AI responsibly and ethically, and how to advise young people on the way these new technologies are transforming education and the labour market. Ensure wide access to high-quality, up-to-date labour market information. Share learning across the UK nations to inform future AI use in careers education, information, advice and guidance. Use evaluation evidence from career guidance tools to contribute to the necessary regulatory and legislative frameworks for governance of AI technologies. Strengthen strategic regional leadership and involve employers in shaping careers support in line with local and business priorities. AI developers should: Build with ‘safety by design’ at the core of products. Engage with end users and research to understand how young people use LLM chatbots and the guardrails needed to ensure safety. Develop and test products to support young people with different special educational needs and disabilities. Engage with careers experts to understand the purpose, practice and benefits of career guidance and reflect this throughout the lifecycle of design, development and deployment of the product. Ensure that the data used to fine-tune foundation model-based AI tools used in career guidance is appropriate, necessary, relevant and representative. Complete the Algorithmic Transparency Recording Standard (if in the public sector) for greater transparency about how AI tools work, the data they draw on and any evidence of their effectiveness. Expand and publish evaluation evidence beyond capturing the perceptions of users to measure the impact on career-related outcomes. Education leaders should: Assess the need for AI products and take a purpose-led approach to their procurement, development and use. Provide clear AI policies to careers advisers working with young people. Ensure that every young person has access to personal guidance from a human professional in addition to appropriate digital support. Career development practitioners should: Support teachers, students and parents/carers with AI literacy and safety. Target professional (human) careers support at students from disadvantaged backgrounds. Understand how students are using and responding to AI. Ask digital providers for evidence of effectiveness and details on how models work to inform procurement decisions. Undertake a data protection impact assessment (DPIA) before deploying or using any data-driven tool. Employers should: Share insights on AI in the workplace with young people and teachers through career talks, work experience, internships, and curriculum resources. Share policies on AI use in recruitment including how candidates are permitted to use AI tools. Ensure any use of AI in recruitment processes promotes inclusion and fairness. Researchers and funders should focus their research on: The effectiveness of different hybrid models of chatbot- and human-led guidance for different use cases. This should include different target groups of young people and a range of career guidance outcomes including motivation, informed decision-making, pathway satisfaction, understanding the labour market and employment outcomes. Evaluation frameworks to build trust and confidence in findings and to provide a basis for decision-making. These should consider existing frameworks that measure career-related skills and outcomes. How to design and implement hybrid models inclusively and to reduce inequalities in access to guidance. Effective use of AI by career development practitioners to enhance the quality of resources, communication and guidance. Appropriate, ethical and effective use of AI for work experience and other employer engagement activities. Glossary AI Artificial intelligence (the science of creating computer systems designed to carry out tasks previously considered to require human behaviour, intervention or oversight) API Application programming interface ATS Applicant tracking service CDI Career Development Institute CDP Career development practitioner (including careers advisers and careers leaders) CEC The Careers & Enterprise Company DfE Department for Education DWP Department for Work and Pensions EDI Equity, diversity and inclusion LLM Large language model LMI Labour market information NCS National Careers Service NEET Not in education, employment or training NLP Natural language processing OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development SDS Skills Development Scotland UCAS Universities and Colleges Admissions Service Introduction The choices that a young person makes during their transition from education to work are a defining feature of the journey to adulthood [2] and have long-lasting consequences. The support that young people receive with these choices and their experiences of getting a foothold in employment are already being impacted by AI technologies, offering both opportunities and risks. A wide range of stakeholders including career development practitioners, educators, employers, technologists and policy officials are looking towards AI and considering its potential to support young people’s transitions. This discussion paper brings together different perspectives to assess the current landscape of AI (alongside wider data-driven technologies) within careers education, information, advice and guidance and the transition to employment in the UK. The need for more careers support Evidence suggests that young people face challenging circumstances in making the transition from education to employment. There are rising levels of economic inactivity, [3] which show no sign of abating due to the high rates of school absence, and the high and increasing rates of special educational needs and disabilities (SEND) and mental health challenges among teenagers. Graduate employment opportunities are contracting, [4] and young people with low attainment levels will find access to employment increasingly difficult as job growth is concentrated in higher-skilled occupations. [5] It has been estimated that, as a result of technological and other global changes, between 1 and 3 million jobs could be lost from declining occupations by 2035. [6] Within jobs that remain, jobs in some sectors such as science, engineering, technology, media, business and public service are more exposed to change as a result of AI adoption. [7] Emerging evidence suggests that university students are changing their long-term career plans in light of perceived labour market changes and needing to adapt in the short-term to changes in entry-level roles. [8] [9] The policy landscape is also in flux with changes to qualifications, funding and apprenticeships across the UK. [10] [11] Given this context, the need for careers support is greater than ever. There are established systems of careers support across the UK and evidence of improvement over recent years in England, including in personal guidance (the aspect of career guidance which helps students to apply their wider careers knowledge and experiences to their own circumstances). [12] The evidence from young people, however, is mixed. While national data in England suggests that the majority of young people rate different aspects of their career readiness positively, [13] surveys of young people consistently identify an unmet need for further support. [14] [15] Qualitative research with young people taking part in the Nuffield Foundation’s Grown up? Journeys to adulthood programme identified considerable variation in access to information, opportunities, experiences and guidance. Those outside of the education system found it particularly difficult to find training and employment, but across participants there was limited awareness of information. [16] The resources for personal guidance are highly constrained. [17] [18] Across the different careers systems of the UK, students typically have one or two personal guidance sessions with a qualified careers adviser lasting less than one hour, during their time in school and college. Pay levels for careers advisers are considered to be low and the size of the workforce is not large enough to serve the population of young people. These pressures, combined with the resource-constrained environment, are prompting experimentation with AI and data-driven technologies to improve personalised and accessible support. The emergence of AI and data-driven technologies Digital technologies have been used to support young people’s transitions from education to work since ‘career development’ emerged as a field of practice and research in the 1960s. [19] Career development practitioners have continuously incorporated new forms of technology into their practice. Since access to the internet became widespread, individuals have increasingly been able to ‘self-serve’ without reliance on a professional. [20] AI systems have been used for decades for matching individuals with career pathways and jobs, as well as for labour market analysis. Until recently, all AI systems used in educational contexts counted as narrow AI – referring to the fact that they are limited to undertaking a specific task (or set of tasks) within a specific domain. Examples of narrow AI systems are decision trees or algorithms for job matching, digital tools for CV screening and rules-based chatbots. The recent emergence of a new form of AI, known as the foundation model, [21] has led to a surge of interest in potential new uses of AI for career guidance. While foundation models can be used to develop narrow, task-specific AI systems, they are also capable of more general-purpose applications, and are substantially better at producing fluid, natural-language exchanges with users. Foundation models also require far larger quantities of data to develop than previous AI systems used in career guidance. The fact that foundation models can be interacted with via a natural-language interface (typically text or speech), and the popularity of consumer software that makes this easy (such as ChatGPT and Claude), has made AI feel visible and useable.Interest in the potential of AI tools powered by foundation models for providing personalised careers information, advice and guidance has expanded rapidly among career development practitioners, education leaders, policymakers, researchers and young people themselves. Responses to these new systems are varied: there are AI enthusiasts who take an AI-first approach; early adopters who, after testing and experimenting with AI tools, either remove or refine products in light of their experience; curious experimenters who are alert to the risks as well as the opportunities; and others who are resisting what they see as AI hype. However, this can be a confusing landscape, unless a large amount of time is devoted to staying abreast of developments. The pace of change and the extent of potential impact make this wave of digital development distinct from previous developments in EdTech. For the majority, it is unclear how different types of AI work, what data they are trained on and how to ensure data privacy. For career development practitioners in particular, it is also unclear how to advise students on the way these new technologies are transforming employment and recruitment, and how to compare the effectiveness and value for money of different digital platforms and products. In the absence of adequate AI governance, it is difficult to assess how to balance the potential opportunities of AI against the risks, such as ill-informed career decision-making as a result of biased and inaccurate data, and threats to data privacy and safeguarding. As AI-related technologies proliferate, it is important that those making decisions about the use of AI in career guidance understand what AI is, how it works and the circumstances in which it may or may not be beneficial. All career development practitioners need to be able to guide young people in how AI might affect application processes and the workplace. Project aims The Nuffield Foundation, with its deep expertise in education and youth transitions, and the Ada Lovelace Institute, with its focus on the two-way relationship between AI and data-driven technologies and the people who are affected by them, have collaborated to explore this emerging field. This project follows the publication of A learning curve? A Iandscape review of AI and education in the UK which highlighted areas for further study. [22] Our aims were to bring greater clarity on the role of AI in career guidance and access to employment, to support policy and educational experts to navigate these issues, and to highlight priorities for policy and further research. In support of these aims, this report: Describes how AI-related technologies are being developed and used in career guidance for young people. Considers the aspects of career guidance that could potentially be supported by AI tools and where AI is unlikely to be of help. Sets out the foundations for appropriate, ethical and effective use of AI in career guidance. Provides recommendations for different stakeholders to support positive and equitable outcomes for young people. Project scope and methodology This report investigates how AI is being explored in career guidance to support young people’s transitions from education to employment in the UK. The focus is on young people in schools, colleges and universities considering their next steps and future career. Education policy is devolved and each of the UK nations has its own careers system with national government-led all-age services in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. England’s National Careers Service is used mainly by adults although can be accessed by anyone aged 13 or above. Young people are supported mainly by school- and college-led provision within a national infrastructure of local and regional support overseen by The Careers and Enterprise Company in England. While our focus is on the UK, reference is made to international examples of AI in career guidance for context. The term ‘career guidance’ is used in this report to refer to the range of activities that young people engage in to explore and plan for their future education and career. It encompasses careers education, information, advice and guidance (CEIAG) and, in England, the eight Gatsby Benchmarks of Good Career Guidance. [23] Further detail about the terms used in different contexts is provided in the next section. The report also touches on how young people and career development practitioners are adapting plans and advice in response to technological change in the labour market. Given the importance of accessing entry-level jobs in the transition from education to work, we also consider how narrow AI and foundation models are affecting recruitment and application practices. Our review combines desk research and conversations with stakeholders. The literature we reviewed included journal articles, government reports, grey literature and websites. Relevant literature was identified through word of mouth from stakeholders, keyword searches of academic and grey literature databases, internet searches and the websites of digital career platforms. Conversations were held with 36 stakeholders including policy officials from the four UK nations, developers of technology products, careers sector leaders, AI specialists, data rights advocates and careers development practitioners with an interest in AI. The purpose of the conversations was to identify where and how AI is being used to support young people’s transitions and career planning. We explored the different types of career guidance-related activities that are incorporating AI across the different stages of education, how the different contexts of national careers systems are affecting this, and a range of perspectives on the opportunities and risks now and in the future. The section ‘The current landscape of AI in career guidance’ describes the range of ways in which AI is being used, experimented with or considered for use within career guidance. The opportunities and risks in relation to the use of AI are set out in ‘Opportunities and risks’. We consider the measures needed to ensure appropriate, ethical and effective use of AI in ‘Foundations for appropriate, ethical and effective AI in career guidance’, and ‘Conclusion’ summarises the key points, outlines recommendations and identifies areas for future research. The following limitations should be noted: Our review of AI in career guidance is not comprehensive. It is a fast-changing area and there are technology developments which have not yet been documented, and our stakeholder engagement involved exploratory conversations with only some of the experts in the field. The report is not a technical report. It does not describe how AI models are being developed. Rather we are keen to understand and explore how AI models are, or may be, used to support career guidance tools, products and expert guidance now or in the future. The suggested foundations for ethical, appropriate and effective use are tentative. They are based on the limited evidence that exists and learnings from other areas of public policy. Further collaborative work and stronger evidence is needed to develop these. The current landscape of AI in career guidance Through our research, we aimed to identify the types of AI used within career guidance, the purposes of AI use by career development practitioners and young people, and the scale of adoption and integration. Our focus was mainly on career guidance within the education and training system, but we also touched on AI systems used for job applications and recruitment since young people and employers are already experimenting with AI use. The different types of AI, the different terms often used to describe both AI and career guidance, and the rapid changes of these make this a complex area. We therefore start this section by explaining the distinction between careers information, advice and guidance and the terminology used across the UK and different phases of education. We then define narrow AI and foundation models and describe the varied uses of each in the context of young people’s transitions. Career guidance terminology The Career Development Institute, the professional body for career development across all ages in the UK, provides the following definitions. [24] The acronym CEIAG is often used as a shorthand to encompass careers education, information, advice and guidance. Career development Career development is the lifelong process of managing and advancing a career over time. It involves acquiring new skills, knowledge and experiences, as well as making strategic decisions and taking actions to enhance professional growth and achieve long-term career goals. Careers education Usually in education settings, this refers to a range of actions to educate people on the potential careers available, develop career management skills and explore their own career potential. Career information Providing information, such as on different job roles or the local labour market, to help clients make informed decisions. Career advice Offering advice on the different pathways based on the client’s needs, goals and situation. Career guidance Career coaching to help the client explore their own strengths and development needs, their aspirations, barriers and needs, so the client has the self-understanding to confidently define their next steps. This report uses the term ‘career guidance’ to encompass the breadth of the activities above that young people engage in to support their pathway choices, entry to employment and to develop the career management skills needed across their lifetime. In England, ‘career guidance’ has been widely adopted as an umbrella term since the publication of the Gatsby Benchmarks of Good Career Guidance in 2014 [25] and is also used internationally. [26] The Gatsby Benchmark framework covers eight areas of provision within schools and colleges that were identified through an international review of indicators of quality. The activity of one-to-one support from a professional careers adviser (benchmark 8) is what many people think of when they hear the term ‘career guidance’ but the framework also encompasses engagement with employers and education providers, and learning about careers through labour market information and curriculum subjects as part of a programme that spans 11-18 education. All aspects of the framework are considered to be important for positive career outcomes. Ten years on, the benchmarks were reviewed and refreshed, retaining the same eight benchmarks but adjusting the underlying definitions and requirements. [27] The Careers & Enterprise Company, the national body overseeing provision in England, also uses the umbrella term ‘careers education’ to signal that careers provision should be fully embedded across the mission and strategy of schools and colleges. [28] THE GATSBY BENCHMARKS A stable careers programme Learning from career and labour market information Addressing the needs of each young person Linking curriculum learning to careers Encounters with employers and employees Experiences of workplaces Encounters with further and higher education Personal guidance The national careers services in all four nations use the term careers information, advice and guidance. Higher education institutions across the UK commonly refer to ‘careers, employability and enterprise services’ to recognise the contribution of staff within other departments such as disability support. ‘Career development practitioners’ is the term used in the UK as an umbrella term for careers advisers (trained to Level 4 to provide advice and Level 6/7 to provide guidance), careers leaders (who oversee careers programmes in schools and colleges), careers and employability staff in universities and adult guidance career coaches and advisers. What is AI? There is no universally accepted definition of AI. Broadly, it refers to the science of creating computer systems designed to carry out tasks previously considered to require human behaviour, intervention or oversight. The Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) defines AI as ‘an umbrella term for a range of technologies and approaches that often attempt to mimic human thought to solve complex tasks’. [29] Narrow AI in career guidance For the purposes of this paper, narrow AI refers to any AI system designed to carry out a particular task and incapable of being applied to tasks or domains other than the ones for which it was trained. The most common form of narrow AI relies on machine learning, which works by finding patterns in data and applying those patterns to predict the best output. Despite being task-specific, narrow AI systems can be varied and incredibly powerful. They can analyse large datasets at speed, make predictions and automate decisions. Some systems can learn patterns from datasets and use this to adapt their analysis or decision-making. Evidence which demonstrates the impact of AI is largely focused on narrow AI, an example being health-screening tools. Narrow AI systems are well established within the landscape of careers information and advice. Job matching algorithms Algorithms used to match people to jobs are an example of narrow AI. The algorithms take data provided by a user about their skills, interests, personality, qualifications and preferred work environment and match them with occupational profiles, by using keywords, weighted scoring and filters (such as geography). Digital career tools with job matching capability have been in place for decades. More recent tools incorporate machine learning to predict outcomes of education pathways based on matching the user to similar students in large datasets. Example : The UCAS Careers Quiz uses the answers to 30 questions to provide a percentage match to specific job roles and careers, signposting users to the courses that were followed by people in those careers. It draws on labour market information from Lightcast and an occupational classification to produce a personality profile and job matches. It then uses Graduate Outcomes data to map the Standard Occupational Classification with higher education course codes to show the courses followed by previous students. It also uses information about skills to determine the relevance of courses to job roles. [30] Use : Students typically engage with the UCAS website when they start to think about applying for higher education courses and apprenticeships. The Careers Quiz is targeted directly at students to support their decision-making process, but the website also provides information about how it works (as set out above) to advisers who may signpost students to the Quiz as part of their personal guidance support. Job recommendation systems These systems recommend jobs to users based on the data they have provided such as qualifications, skills, interests and location, as well as their previous job search activity on a platform and their networks. Job recommendation systems share features with e-commerce, online advertising and other online services such as video on demand or social media platforms. By monitoring and collecting online behaviours and combining the data with personal information, the service provides the user with seemingly personalised recommendations. Example : LinkedIn’s recommendation system suggests job opportunities to a user based on their profile, networks, work experience, skills and job preferences. It uses natural language processing (NLP) to identify the context behind a job description and machine learning to rank recommendations and reinforcement learning from clicks. [31] Use : Job recommendation systems are targeted at job seekers and those looking to build their professional network. Career practitioners may signpost young people above minimum age thresholds [32] towards these platforms. They can be categorised as careers information and advice. Labour market analysis Machine learning is used in the UK and elsewhere to analyse the labour market in real time from large amounts of data from multiple sources, providing an up-to-date picture of labour demand and trends. Example : Lightcast, which uses machine learning to categorise and project skills demand in the future, [33] is used widely across the career sector. The company formed through the merger of Emsi, which launched an open-access skills library using machine learning in 2010, [34] and Burning Glass, which used semi-supervised machine learning to classify skill requirements in job postings. [35] Use : Technologies such as Lightcast provide careers information and appear to be most useful to regional skills leads, careers leaders and careers advisers looking to understand broad trends. Where Lightcast is linked to other career digital software through APIs (as in the case of the UCAS Careers Quiz), it can be filtered to a user’s interests. Foundation models in career guidance While narrow AI is clearly important within career guidance, our review focused to a greater extent on foundation models and in particular the use of generative AI and large language models (LLMs), reflecting the interests of the stakeholders we spoke to. What are foundation models? Foundation models, the most common form of which are sometimes referred to as general-purpose AI (GPAI), [36] are a form of AI which came to prominence in the 2020s. Foundation models are capable of a range of tasks and applications, including producing a wide variety of outputs such as text, image or audio content. Foundation models are different from narrow AI systems in several ways. First, they are trained on much larger amounts of data. Second, they are customisable for specific uses, meaning that specific tools can be built through fine-tuning from a generic base model. Most notably, unlike narrow AI, a foundation model may be capable of performing many tasks across many domains. LLMs are a kind of foundation model that specialises in processing text, rather than other modalities. Generative AI or GenAI tends to refer to foundation models that generate novel outputs like long-form text, audio and images. Why are foundation models of interest in career guidance? Foundation models can produce individualised responses to prompts from a user and can vary their responses based on a user’s question or query. This use of foundation models can predict or generate the next word or sequence of words far more accurately, quickly and efficiently than earlier AI models, using sophisticated machine learning methods to identify and encode patterns and relationships in order to determine a response or output. When a user inputs a prompt, the model produces a response by identifying or predicting what word comes next, based on the sophisticated patterns it has learned from the data it has been trained on. Hosted chat interfaces have been built to make these models much easier for everyday users to interact with. Users do not need technical expertise to chat and engage – they can simply head to a website or app, write questions or requests, and get a response. Popular examples include OpenAI’s ChatGPT, Microsoft’s Copilot, Google’s Gemini and Anthropic’s Claude. These products specialise in generating new content based on a text prompt inputted by the user. We identified the main uses of foundation models in a career guidance context as: a conversational interface for practitioners to support administration and resource development; a careers-focused chatbot for users; and a tool to assist users with identifying courses or developing job applications. In the section below, we outline the technology and how it is being used for career guidance, describe how the profession is adapting and upskilling, and provide an overview of the technology’s implementation context across the UK. Foundation models and LLMs are emerging in different aspects of career guidance There is considerable interest within the career development sector in the potential for foundation models, in particular AI chatbots or AI assistants built using LLMs, to improve the quality, efficiency and accessibility of careers information, advice and guidance to support young people’s transitions. [37] Given that data is central to career guidance and that career practitioners are accustomed to adapting to new technology to access and interpret such data, [38] it is not surprising that the sector is exploring the capabilities of foundation models. Our review found that tech-savvy career practitioners are leading the development of careers-focused LLM chatbots as well as experimenting with widely available models such as ChatGPT and Microsoft Copilot. Through our exploratory conversations and review of websites, blogs and articles, we identified varied uses of AI tools powered by foundation models by both career practitioners and young people. We describe these uses below in four categories: administration, resource creation, supporting guidance sessions, and careers information and advice. We consider the opportunities and risks associated with them in the section ‘Opportunities and risks’. Administration : Some practitioners are experimenting with using AI for scheduling appointments, writing emails and creating notes from meetings – tasks which are common to many sectors and jobs. We heard that Careers Wales and Skills Development Scotland have rolled out Microsoft Copilot to support these uses but that implementation and engagement are still at an early stage. We heard that some individual careers advisers avoid using AI systems in schools where there was not a clear AI policy. In a recent survey, 71 per cent of higher education careers services were using AI for back-office tasks such as analysing student engagement and feedback data and internal communications. [39] Resource creation : A report exploring the potential of AI within the careers support ecosystem shared ‘120 mind-blowing AI tools’ across six categories (chatbot, design, writing, productivity, video and marketing), including 30 that could be used in the classroom. [40] Our review identified examples of experimentation with some of these multi-modal tools for activities such as creating resources for practitioners, careers action plans for students, careers-related quizzes and feedback forms. [41] An AI toolkit created for careers and employability practitioners in higher education detailed how Microsoft Copilot and Canva were used to make explicit the process and considerations. [42] Supporting guidance sessions : We heard that some career practitioners are developing LLM assistants to perform specific aspects of their role, including integrating the technology within their guidance sessions. Wendy Pearson, Associate Professor of Career Studies and Coaching Programmes at the University of Warwick, has developed and shared prompt blocks for AI career guidance. The prompt blocks address five issues with using LLMs: potential harms, seeming to be human, hallucinations (generating incorrect but plausible content) and ‘forgetting’, helping too much (problem solving rather than exploring), and an ‘hour-less’ quality where there are no boundaries or closure. [43] Careers information and advice : We encountered examples of careers advisers using AI tools powered by foundation models to find careers information to support their clients, but there was greater focus on how young people are engaging with these tools directly. A small-scale study carried out in a higher education setting in 2024 found that over one-third of students had used foundation model-based systems for a range of career-related activities such as identifying what careers might suit them (46.5%), general advice on how to approach careers topics (30.3%) and long-term personalised guidance/mentoring (33.3%). [44] In a larger-scale 2025 survey of users of the Prospects.ac.uk website over the age of 13, 20% of 18-24 year olds and 17% of 13-17 year olds said they have used AI tools for careers advice. [45] What is not clear is whether this AI use is plugging a gap in access to personal guidance, or if it is being used alongside other forms of guidance or as an alternative by choice. In the same survey, 60% of school students, 71% of college/sixth form students and 46% of university students had attended a career guidance appointment in the last year. Some of the stakeholders we spoke to thought that there could be benefits in students using AI tools in advance of personal guidance sessions and discussing the output with a qualified practitioner, but this is an emergent area with little documented evidence or guidance as yet. Careers-focused AI There is growing interest in the potential of AI chatbots to provide personalised support for careers. Skills Development Scotland has sponsored participatory research to explore with careers experts the responsible design features of what they refer to as ‘conversational agents’ in human-centred career support. [46] Using the Delphi method, which builds consensus through rounds of questionnaires, the research identified that navigating careers information is a task that a conversational agent could usefully support young people with, as long as the chatbot functions in a way that increases curiosity and exploration. There was also a high level of agreement with aspects of implementation and ethics, such as ensuring users are made aware of other sources of support and understand the scope and limitations of the chatbot. Agreement was not reached on how to handle conversational breakdown or on the role of password protection. Further research is in progress with users to explore interactional preferences and outcomes. The findings will be valuable for informing technological choices about the type of AI that best meets the needs of users. While this research has been underway, careers-focused AI chatbots have been emerging onto the UK market. Some of the well-established careers digital providers have experimented with integrating LLMs into their existing products. For example, Morrisby’s CourseNav is described as an ‘AI assistant for student queries’ designed to be incorporated within a college website to provide prospective students with information about relevant courses. [47] It is one of a suite of tools provided by Morrisby and is marketed as being able to increase enrolment, reduce costs, improve student retention and transform communication. It is narrower in purpose than Morrisby’s earlier AI tool ‘Huxby’, an experiment with a wider chatbot service. [48] CareerChat UK’s CiCi is the main specialist careers-focused AI, led by Dr Deirdre Hughes and Dr Chris Percy. [49] It is designed to provide careers advice and employability support to young people (and adults), directing users to qualified human advisers when needed. The tool draws on a wide range of education and labour market information and is curated by experienced professional careers advisers. Early (unpublished) evidence from a large higher education institution found significant time savings from using CiCi, which careers advisers used to focus on the most complicated cases and strategic cross-institution projects. CiCi has been ‘white-labelled’ for use by different providers (meaning that their branding is added to the product). CareerChat UK has partnered with WorldSkills UK to create CAT (Careers Advice Toolkit), ‘a customised AI careers chatbot designed to help young people across the UK explore apprenticeships, technical education, and meaningful career opportunities’ for young people, parents, guardians, educators and career development practitioners. [50] It has also partnered with BBC Bitesize Careers, Arden University [51] and has been incorporated into Durham Works [52] ,an employability service for young people aged 16-24 years. The accompanying webinar series explores different aspects of the potential of AI for careers support. [53] Other examples of AI tools powered by foundation models which are used for careers advice and guidance include: Nim, an ‘AI career co-pilot’ which is a feature of Stay Nimble, a UK social enterprise platform which provides career coaching to individuals and organisations through videos, web chat and CDI-registered professional career coaches. [54] Diggory, an ‘AI uni guide’ which is an application hosted by The Student Room, an online community for students looking for study help, advice about university applications, careers support and a space to talk about wider life matters, with input from staff and volunteers. [55] Outcore, an ‘AI-driven assistant’ or interactive chatbot for learners to explore career paths, set goals and support CV writing. Outcore is a feature of Purlos, a platform providing data and analytics to education institutions and career professionals to identify students at risk of dropping out and to support positive destinations. [56] It is not yet clear how AI tools powered by foundation models and fine-tuned for use in career guidance will develop in relation to those that are fine-tuned and used for related areas, such as student services in further education colleges [57] , employability services [58] and mental health services. [59] AI assistants have been released for specific purposes such as mental health support, using a natural-language interface (such as text or audio) to interact with a user in a human-like manner, and potentially take actions on their behalf. [60] Anthropic has been selected by the UK’s Department for Science, Innovation and Technology (DSIT) to develop an AI assistant to provide personalised career advice and support to job seekers. [61] Recent publications from the Ada Lovelace Institute explain different types of AI and the considerations they pose. [62] [63] Foundation models are changing how young people apply for courses and jobs Evidence suggests that young people are increasingly making use of AI tools powered by foundation models within applications for jobs and courses. The 2024 annual survey by the Institute of Student Employers found competition for graduate jobs to be at a record high, with employers receiving 140 applications on average per job. [64] Employer guidance on use of AI tools in applications is variable, with 45% of employers not providing any guidance, and a further 29% recommending that candidates do not use AI tools but not taking any action if they do. [65] An increasing proportion of employers suspect candidates to be ‘cheating’ in the recruitment process, for example by using AI during interviews without disclosure or permission. For those applying to higher education courses and apprenticeships through the UCAS service, guidance is provided on permitted ways to use AI for drafting personal statements without falling foul of plagiarism. [66] This upward trend in AI use is reflected in surveys of students. In 2025, Prospects Luminate found that ‘43% of graduates had used AI for editing a CV or cover letter, 35% for writing a CV or cover letter, 29% when preparing or practicing for interviews, and 26% for answering questions in application forms’. [67] One fifth of jobseekers had sent out more than 50 job applications, driven by a combination of fewer vacancies and the ease of drafting applications. Emerging evidence suggests that the system of employer recruitment has been significantly undermined by AI and that employers are uncertain how to change the process without exacerbating inequalities. [68] Career practitioners are advising young people to use AI as a copilot rather than autopilot and to understand the Applicant Tracking Service to maximise their chances of being shortlisted. However, the rapid evolution of AI leaves practitioners and young people struggling to keep pace with changing expectations and technologies. Implementation context Achieving AI preparedness for career practitioners is challenging There is a broad consensus among careers sector leaders about the need for all career practitioners to engage with AI tools powered by foundation models to understand how to use them ethically and responsibly in line with professional codes of practice, and to respond to young people’s use of AI in a guidance context. More broadly, career development practitioners are supporting young people to make career choices in the absence of consensus about the impact of AI on the future labour market. As of early 2026, there is a wide variation in confidence and competence among careers advisers across the UK as characterised by the five personas identified by experts Marianne Wilson and Michael Larbalestier: naive users, sceptics, cautious explorers, moderate acceptors and enthusiastic adopters. [69] The Career Development Institute is taking a lead role in providing training, resources and opportunities to learn through conferences. We heard that 200+ career practitioners have taken part in the six-week CDI training which explores the benefits and limitations of AI in different career guidance contexts, the ethical aspects of AI and encourages experimentation. For context, there are approximately 16,000 career development practitioners in England. [70] Recent webinars [71] and annual CDI conferences have also included presentations and workshops on AI to reach wider audiences. The Careers Matters journal (available to CDI members) includes articles about AI and guidance on the use of AI has been integrated into the professional Code of Ethics for career development practitioners: ‘As members and clients are increasingly supported by digital technologies and Artificial Intelligence (AI), the CDI recommends that members commit to remaining current and have a critical understanding of emerging technologies and their application to practice.’ [72] The Graduate Futures Institute, a membership organisation for careers and employability professionals in higher education, also offers targeted AI training. This includes events such as the ‘AI in Careers and Employability: Unpacked’ online mini-conference and half-day online training courses called ‘AI Fast Track’. Training in understanding and using AI is also incorporated into other Graduate Futures Institute activities such as parallel sessions at the Annual Conference 2025 on ‘Generative AI in job applications: Empowering ethical student practices’, ‘How to create an AI employability course for students: A step-by-step guide’ and ‘Introducing CAREERGenAI: A framework for integrating generative AI into career and employability practices’. Members also have access to published resources such as an AI toolkit, AI case studies via the Phoenix journal, and AI news shared on the website and blog pages. Alongside the formal training and resources provided by membership organisations, some career professionals who are particularly engaged with emerging technologies are sharing their own expertise and developing resources. For example: #TheWeekInCareers blog post [73] CareerChat UK webinar series [74] Adventures in Career Development blog [75] ATLP Futures Readiness resources. [76] In the recent survey of Higher Education careers services, carried out by the Graduate Futures Institute, the main challenge or concern in implementing AI (cited by 64% of respondents) was a lack of staff training or understanding of AI tools. [77] Despite these initiatives, stakeholders across the UK noted that the pace of upskilling amongst practitioners is not keeping up with AI changes to the labour market, the implications for skills demand, recruitment practices and young people’s use of AI. This potentially leaves young people under-supported with deciding on qualification pathways and careers, with survey evidence showing that young people are altering their career plans in response to how they perceive AI to be changing jobs. [78] [79] Employer engagement activities could support AI skills development The careers systems in each of the UK nations place a strong emphasis on providing opportunities for young people to learn about work directly through employer engagement activities such as attending employer talks, job shadowing and work experience. Recent policy documents in England have strengthened this by setting a vision for two weeks’ worth of work experience for all young people. [80] [81] Recent initiatives have focused on embedding the learning of ‘essential skills’ (those that are widely valued in employment) within these activities through frameworks and resources. For example, the CEC’s Modern Work Experience quality framework [82] sets out the intended outcomes for the learner and the Employer Standards provides employers with a framework to align activities with the Skills Builder framework of essential skills. [83] [84] This infrastructure provides an opportunity to give young people some exposure to the knowledge and skills needed for AI in the workplace. However, employer engagement activities alone are unlikely to be sufficient given the diversity in how employers are using AI and the limits to what can feasibly be covered during work experience. The recent publications from Skills England about AI Skills, [85] and the Skills Classification [86] provide a basis for integrating AI skills within the wider education system, but as yet it is unclear how AI skills teaching will be coordinated across the curriculum, enrichment activities or careers programmes. The different national careers systems are shaping the approach to AI The national careers systems across UK schools and colleges provide different contexts for the adoption of new data-driven technologies according to: The existing digital infrastructure . For example, staff in schools and colleges in England have free access to Compass+ which can be linked to other digital careers tools that collect student data. [87] In Scotland, My World of Work is an all-age digital platform with student log-in enabling data portability as young people move between education institutions. [88] The landscape of labour market data . For example, the Skills Barometer is the main source of LMI in Northern Ireland. [89] In England, Skills England is taking on responsibility for LMI. ‘LMI for All’ ceased being available in October 2025. [90] Career development frameworks which emphasise different aspects of careers support. For example, schools and colleges in England follow the Gatsby Benchmarks and track student career readiness and essential skills mapped onto the Skills Builder framework. Scotland follows the Career Management Skills framework. [91] Access to personal guidance . In Wales, students in Year 10 are prioritised for guidance based on a careers-check questionnaire. Careers advisers are employed by government-led careers services in the devolved nations, whereas in England, some are employed by schools and colleges and others are self-employed or contracted from external organisations. Within universities, approaches to careers, employability and enterprise services are institution-led with fewer nation-specific differences. Our review suggested that all the UK nations are at a relatively early stage in relation to using AI within careers practice, but they are exploring the potential of AI through different initiatives. The Northern Ireland Careers Service commissioned an international evidence review of careers support interventions to inform their strategy, which included a summary of AI applications, drawing on case studies collated by the OECD as part of the Observatory on Digital Technologies in Career Guidance for Youth [92] (see pp. 43-44). [93] The Careers Strategy 2025-28 sets out an intention to explore the use of technology. [94] Skills Development Scotland has developed mandatory AI and ethics training for careers advisers in collaboration with the CDI to bolster their support for clients and to increase efficiencies. SDS has commissioned research on AI to inform its strategy including a PhD about how conversational AI can responsibly support career guidance [95] [96] [97] and another on using machine learning to extract skills from job adverts. [98] Careers Wales hosts CareersCraft on Minecraft which provides an interactive way for learners (8-14 years) to explore careers topics linked to landmarks across Wales. [99] Mostly, AI is being used within the service to improve staff efficiency and prioritise clients. In England, AI experimentation is being led by career practitioners, academics and providers of digital career platforms. The National Careers Service, which provides a digital service alongside a telephone helpline, is currently undergoing transformation in the context of the new Jobs and Careers Service with suggestions that an AI agent may become part of future provision. [100] What are the future possibilities? The initiatives above indicate that although AI has, so far, had a relatively limited impact on career guidance and young people’s experience of transitions to work, there are numerous ways in which it may change the landscape in the future. In 2023, Hughes and Percy set out five scenarios of how AI development and implementation might play out over the next decade across career guidance and more widely. Gradual adaptation : Incremental improvements in the use of AI rather than transformative innovations. Plateau-for-all : A potential plateau in AI development, which could happen if breakthroughs slow down or if the most accessible, low-hanging fruits of AI applications have already been picked. Fragmented future : Where AI adoption is uneven across different sectors and regions with the risk of deepening social and economic inequalities. Chaotic expansion : A series of rapid but uncoordinated and unregulated breakthroughs, leading to widespread disruption and inequality and inequitable provision for individuals, organisations, sectors and regions. Hyper-connected and hyper-charged : Significant gains in AI technology alongside a more equitable distribution of AI resources, contributing to societal goals like environmental sustainability and improved quality of life. [101] In a survey of 112 higher education careers leaders carried out by the Graduate Futures Institute (previously known as AGCAS), AI and technology was identified as one of five areas of anticipated growth in careers and employability services, ‘specifically the need for high-quality guidance on AI in recruitment for students and graduates, the delivery of digital self-service information and resources related to careers and employability, and the provision of AI tools for students and graduates.’ [102] The Skills White Paper set out an intention to use AI to enhance ’Risk of NEET’ indicator tools to support the identification of young people needing additional support, which could become integrated within school careers provision. There is no further detail as yet as to what this might entail. [103] The National Careers Service in England is exploring how AI could support its digital services in response to the plans set out in the Get Britain Working white paper. [104] Pillar 4: ‘A digital, universal and fully inclusive service’ refers to ‘DWP ASK’ which is ‘a new digital and artificial intelligence-powered tool that we have been developing to support our work coaches and the employment support they provide. The objective is to provide work coaches across the network with a generative artificial intelligence question and response tool that will help them find the right policy and guidance information for their customers faster.’ There is an opportunity now to learn from AI experimentation within and beyond career guidance to identify the opportunities and risks to guide the future development and implementation of AI. Summary The key points from this section are: Narrow AI is well-established within job matching, job recommendation systems and labour market analysis – aspects of careers information and advice. Foundation models are emergent within the UK career guidance context. Careers practitioners are experimenting with AI tools powered by foundation models, often in the form of LLMs, for administration, resource creation, supporting guidance sessions, and searching for careers information and advice. Careers-focused AI chatbots are emerging onto the market for direct use by young people with signposting to a qualified careers adviser. The sector concurs that guidance requires qualified professional human input, but it is not yet clear if or how these AI tools can be integrated effectively. The careers profession is leading the development of technology and providing avenues for upskilling, but considerable further upskilling is needed to keep abreast of labour market change, the implications for skills needs and how to use AI responsibly and ethically. Young people are using easily accessible AI tools such as ChatGPT, Google Gemini, Microsoft Copilot and others for career exploration, and for course and job applications. AI adoption is causing considerable uncertainty for career planning, with some young people changing their plans. Whether and how AI is affecting young people’s access to entry-level jobs is being closely watched. Although personalised AI tools for SEND learners is an area of interest within the wider education landscape, we heard very little about inclusive design or SEND-focused technology in a career guidance context. Frameworks exist to support AI career readiness through employer engagement activities, but more work is needed to embed AI skills learning across education and training. The UK nations are exploring the potential of AI within career guidance through different approaches, looking to international examples. Clarity is needed about the opportunities and risks of AI to inform future technology development and implementation. Opportunities and risks of foundation models in career guidance Three years on from the launch of OpenAI’s ChatGPT, initiatives across the UK and phases of education have begun exploring the capabilities of foundation models in the context of career guidance. While the technology and adoption are still relatively nascent, there is a valuable window for taking stock of what has been learned to inform future technology development and implementation. By speaking to stakeholders from policy, career development, data rights, AI development and education, we were able to gather different perspectives on opportunities and risks and to consider these in the light of AI development in other public policy areas. Across five key areas that were identified as having AI potential, there were some common themes. Opportunities often derived from the potential for accessibility, efficiency, data-driven insight, and personalisation linked to reduced inequalities according to socio-economic background and additional needs. Meanwhile risks were identified in relation to hallucinations and bias in outputs, over-reliance and misplaced trust, cognitive offloading and skills erosion, inequalities in access to digital and human support, and the environmental impact as models develop and the use of them increases. Improving access to information about careers and pathways Opportunities The capability of narrow AI for sifting, organising and analysing large amounts of labour market data in real time is well established. The labour market intelligence provided by companies such as Lightcast is used by government, business and education for a range of purposes such as skills provision, workforce planning, recruitment and migration policy. What is relatively new is the AI conversational interface (powered by a foundation model) that enables career professionals and young people to interrogate labour market information for specific purposes through digital tools that draw on such data. Foundation models can analyse huge amounts of data according to specific prompts faster than a human. As a result, there is potential for careers advisers and young people themselves to find relevant, tailored careers information more quickly and flexibly than by other means. Some organisations have used specific and relevant data they have collected to build bespoke AI tools powered by foundation models, for example the Winnie chatbot developed by the Windsor Forest Colleges Group [105] or CourseNav by Morrisby. [106] Increased access to high-quality, tailored information could, in theory, be significant, empowering young people to choose learning and career pathways that are less constrained by the influence and expectations of institutions, families and communities. Risks The extent to which AI tools powered by foundation models can provide useful careers information depends on a number of factors including the following three: 1. The quality and suitability of the data for the questions posed This requires transparency about the datasets which the foundation models are accessing so that the user can understand details such as the time period and geographic coverage, the frequency of updates, limitations such as missing data, granularity of details such as ethnicity categories, and so on. Use of generic and easily accessible AI tools such as ChatGPT for careers information carries heightened risk of inaccuracies and bias since these tools are trained on scraped data from across the internet, do not draw on high-quality labour market information and are not fine-tuned to align with career guidance purposes. However, regardless of whether foundation models have been fine-tuned for sector-specific purposes, they all share the risk of hallucinations (generating incorrect but plausible content) or providing a biased or inaccurate response affecting the quality of the output. This is a fundamental challenge, often described as a ‘feature not a bug’ of foundation models. Foundation models have no ‘understanding’ of questions posed to them and are optimised to produce plausible human-like responses based on patterns in the data, rather than necessarily accurate or truthful content. While AI tools trained on specific data will be more bespoke than a generic AI tool such as ChatGPT, the risk of inaccurate or biased outputs are present, despite the quality of data or the fine-tuning of the model to align with career guidance purposes. A further potential concern here is that – without fine-tuning on country-specific datasets – AI models, which are trained on the international, US-centric dataset of the open web, may provide responses that are inappropriate to a user’s specific country and culture. 2. The AI literacy of the user As mentioned in the previous section, some career professionals are developing and sharing banks of pre-tested prompts for use with generic AI tools powered by foundation models, such as ChatGPT. Less experienced practitioners and young people are more likely to be naive in their approach and to lack awareness of the inherent limitations of AI, such as bias, potential hallucinations and unpredictable outputs, how to end conversations and where to go for further information or validation. There are also risks to data privacy if users upload personal information to AI tools. Some risks and harms can be better mitigated through greater literacy, although more evidence is needed on how people act on information. Some studies show that even among those with a good level of understanding of AI, there is a tendency to defer to AI-generated outputs even when incorrect. 3. Over-reliance and critical engagement with the information provided Careers advisers can apply their professional knowledge and experience to evaluate the quality of the careers information provided by AI, whereas young people may be more likely to accept responses to queries at face value. There is a risk that over-reliance on AI by young people and family members aiming to support them could result in suboptimal decisions about education and career pathways. One area of particular concern is the tendency of generic AI tools powered by foundation models to reinforce systemic bias and career stereotypes relating to characteristics such as gender, ethnicity, geography and neurodiversity. This could be demoralising for young people and limit their aspirations. It is also important for users to recognise the limitations of AI in predicting employment outcomes of course and subject choices from the data it draws on, given that the social and economic context will be different in the future than it was for previous cohorts, including due to technological transformation. A hybrid approach to careers advice and guidance Opportunities The provision of career guidance requires a higher level of qualification (Level 6/7) than careers information and advice (Level 4), reflecting the advanced skills and knowledge required to support an individual with career development. [107] Career development practitioners broadly agree that guidance should involve input from a human professional either by building signposting to human advisers into AI tools or by using AI tools in the context of an adviser-client relationship. The CiCi chatbot in the UK offers personalised careers advice and employability support using AI and signposting to a human adviser. [108] There is interest in whether this approach can help fill the gap in young people’s need for support while maintaining the value of engaging with a professional. Careers experts noted the potential value of young people using AI for preparatory work ahead of personal guidance interviews and to support follow-up activity, enabling the careers adviser to focus their time on more in-depth career guidance. A key determinant of the effectiveness of bespoke careers-focused AI tools (which may be narrow AI or foundation models) may be the design of the conversational interface. In her research for Skills Development Scotland, Marianne Wilson is exploring the feasibility of using conversational design to manage the type of careers information, advice and guidance that a chatbot offers. The aim is to support the design of chatbots to adapt the conversational flow for specific career development tasks, place boundaries on the type of support offered, set expectations and signpost to a human adviser where needed. [109] [110] Risks Since the distinction between careers information/advice and career guidance is not well understood beyond the career development sector, the risks associated with using generic AI tools powered by foundation models for decision-making need to be acknowledged and addressed. Evidence from surveys of young people [111] [112] as well as our exploratory conversations suggest that young people at school, college and university are turning to generic AI tools such as ChatGPT, Microsoft Copilot, Google Gemini and others for support with education and career decisions as well as for mental health, wellbeing and relationship advice, and that the boundaries between the topics are indistinct. Generic chatbots offer young people a simulation of career guidance that does not reflect the ethical and professional standards this type of activity requires. The human-like qualities of chatbots can give young people the impression that the model has empathy and understanding, precipitating misplaced trust and over-reliance. Even when young people are aware of these risks, the immediacy and responsiveness of AI remain appealing. [113] Using generic AI tools for careers advice and guidance increases the risk of poorly conceived choices of education and training pathways based on misunderstandings about the labour market, reinforced stereotypes and bias, and inaccuracies arising from hallucinations. Careers advisers are likely to be in the position of needing to respond to the ideas that young people have developed through AI use during their guidance sessions. There are also risks of harm relating to privacy and data protection if young people enter personal data into systems that can use that information for other purposes, such as training AI models or sharing data with other commercial organisations or advertisers. This may be a particular risk in relation to the proliferation of custom agents (e.g. for CV help or career quizzes) being created without career development expertise. AI tools built and trained to be specific careers-focused products such as the CiCi chatbot may reduce the risks associated with generic AI tools, by endeavouring to provide access via a professional careers adviser, drawing on labour market data and structuring the conversation to be focused on the tasks at hand rather than encouraging wider (non-career focused) conversation to develop. More research is needed to identify the effectiveness of different approaches to combining AI tools and professional human input for achieving positive outcomes for young people. The dearth of evidence about effectiveness combined with limited information about how AI tools work means that schools, colleges and universities are making procurement decisions driven more by hype and marketing than by evidence. Evidence from wider EdTech and other public policy areas shows similar risks elsewhere. [114] [115] The careers experts we spoke to also highlighted the risk that adoption of AI poses to future investment in the profession, an area of considerable concern to careers advisers. The sector has experienced sustained under-investment [116] and the workforce in each of the four nations faces recruitment and retention challenges. In England, the workforce challenges are particularly acute given that schools and colleges fund careers advisers directly from their budgets rather than drawing on a centrally funded service. If the value of career guidance (as distinct from information and advice) is not understood, there could be a risk of over-reliance on AI to plug the gaps in service provision without evidence of benefits. The issue of increased dependence on AI applies across public services, and particularly with the development of Advanced AI Assistants. [117] Supporting equity and inclusion Opportunities Young people from marginalised backgrounds typically have a greater need for careers support and less access to it compared to their other peers. [118] Lower attainers, many of whom have SEND, face a more complex and less well-known set of pathway choices after GCSEs or National 5s. [119] Students pursuing vocational pathways have to navigate a system that has been subject to frequent policy change, making it harder to access reliable data on employment outcomes. [120] Women and those from ethnic minority and disadvantaged backgrounds are more likely to lack role models in professional occupations and are less likely to be successful in securing jobs compared to those with similar attainment backgrounds. [121] Careers-focused AI tools have the potential to improve access to careers support through 24/7 availability, widening access to up-to-date labour market information, circumventing geographic barriers and providing flexible support for neurodiverse users who may prefer an online environment. Evidence is emerging about inclusive design in chatbots including the use of built-in translation services and assistive technology. [122] [123] Research has also identified a need to nurture the intrinsic motivation of marginalised young people in order for them to benefit from technological transformation of the labour market. [124] Whether and how AI tools powered by foundation models could support this has yet to be fully explored. Risks The opportunities for AI tools powered by foundation models to improve equity and inclusion will only be realised if actively built into the design and implementation of technology. Without an intentional approach, there is a risk that AI could exacerbate existing inequalities in a number of ways. If bespoke careers-focused AI tools are more likely to be purchased by education institutions in economically advantaged areas. If adoption of AI undermines investment in the careers profession, a two-tier system could emerge where young people from wealthier backgrounds access paid-for or bespoke AI tools and access social networks while those from disadvantaged backgrounds become reliant on websites and generic AI tools. If careers-focused AI is incorporated into hybrid services and made optional, young people with greater motivation and self-belief may engage to a greater extent. [125] Those with higher skill levels may use AI in a more sophisticated way and achieve greater benefits. If AI reinforces stereotypes based on gender or other characteristics as is the case in other public policy areas. [126] If young people in schools and college can choose to use digital tools rather than engage in human careers advice or are given no choice to have a human-to-human interaction, they may miss out on opportunities to develop social and communication skills or the inspiration that a professional can provide. Increasing efficiency for career practitioners Opportunities Tech enthusiasts within the careers sector are exploring opportunities for the use of foundation models to increase efficiencies and support the delivery of outputs in day-to-day work. In addition to finding relevant careers information more quickly (covered above), AI tools powered by foundation models have the potential to reduce the time spent on administrative tasks such as drafting emails and taking notes from meetings. We saw in the previous section that AI is being used to develop resources and create quizzes, along with other outputs such as slide-decks for use in guidance work. There is a shared hope that using AI for routine tasks will free up time that careers advisers can devote to supporting students, mirroring aspirations within education more broadly and other public services such as social work and health care. This could result in more young people accessing guidance, longer guidance sessions or greater targeting and could, in theory, help reduce the impact of recruitment and retention pressures. Risks These hoped-for efficiencies are not yet evidenced. Across education more widely and other areas, leaders are sceptical about AI tools reducing workload on the basis that time freed up may simply become filled with other administrative tasks. [127] [128] Plugging the gap in the supply of careers advisers is a short-term fix and does not address the long-term sustainability of the profession. There are other risks associated with integrating AI into workflows. Some of the stakeholders we spoke to shared concerns about the environmental impact of normalising the use of AI within day-to-day work. Others were concerned about the risk of ‘AI slop’ (low quality digital content produced by AI) and its impact on the quality of guidance and the potential to undermine the reputation of the profession. [129] Related to this is the risk that over-reliance on AI leads to a loss of professional skills, particularly for new entrants to the profession. We also heard that some young people prefer to avoid engaging with AI. Widening access to employment Opportunities The availability of AI tools is making it easier to draft applications for courses and jobs, and recent evidence suggests that this is reflected in the increasing number of applications per vacancy. [130] It is possible that AI could widen access to job opportunities, by increasing awareness of vacancies, interpreting person specifications and helping applicants draft compelling content that increases the likelihood of being shortlisted. AI tools available through some universities can also be used to check CVs and support interview practice. [131] These uses may increase the chances of success for young people from under-represented backgrounds who do not have access to social networks that are often instrumental in securing employment. Risks Emerging evidence suggests that the use of AI in job applications is proving counter-productive to applicants and employers. Using data from an online freelancer platform in the US, Galdin and Silbert found that while the quality of job applications was improved with the use of AI tools, this did not enable the best candidates to secure jobs. Candidates in the top quintile of the ability distribution were hired 19% less often and workers in the bottom quintile 14% more often. [132] As we saw in the previous section, employers are uncertain how to respond, with some indicating an interest in returning to face-to-face recruitment. There is no clear solution to achieving equitable outcomes. Greater use of automation in the recruitment process risks exacerbating bias, while reliance on in-person interviews would rule out some candidates, including those who cannot afford to travel. There is also a suggestion that the contraction of the graduate labour market has more to do with employer distrust in the recruitment process than replacing entry-level jobs with AI. For young people applying for jobs, use of AI may also risk offloading the valuable cognitive tasks of self-reflection and the articulation of their fit for a course or a role that are important for interview preparation and making informed choices. Even so, it seems inevitable that, as the job market becomes increasingly competitive, there will be pressure to submit high numbers of applications. The higher education careers sector has some agency through its position at the interface between graduates and employers, but it is unclear how this situation will be resolved. Summary The key points from this section are: We identified five areas of potential for AI to support career guidance and young people’s transitions to employment: improving access to careers information; a hybrid approach to careers advice and guidance which combine AI tools and professional human guidance; supporting equity and inclusion; increasing efficiency for career practitioners; and widening access to employment. AI offers opportunities for improved career decision-making, greater motivation and agency, better employment outcomes for young people from marginalised communities, and reduced resource pressures for career practitioners. However, for each area of opportunity there are risks, challenges and limitations, including increased inequalities in access to guidance and employment, destabilising the careers profession and data loss. Human choices about AI development and implementation will determine how the opportunities and risks play out. Foundations for appropriate, ethical and effective AI in career guidance Our review suggests that the use of AI could support career decision-making, motivation, agency and employment outcomes for young people, particularly those from marginalised communities. It may also assist practitioners by providing wider labour market information and administrative tools. However, for these potential benefits to be realised and the risks of harm minimised, an intentional approach is required that builds on what has been learned from the experience of AI use so far. From our review, three foundational insights emerged about ways to support appropriate, ethical and effective use of AI. The first foundation is to take a purpose-led approach to AI, whether a decision-maker in a leadership position, a career development practitioner or young people themselves. The second foundation is to support the workforce to adapt to the changes prompted by AI adoption. The third foundation is to establish the oversight and evaluation context within which developers, education leaders, career development practitioners and employers engage with AI. Purpose-led use of AI Wider evidence on the use of AI, and particularly on AI tools powered by foundation models, suggests that to benefit society, its development and use should be purpose-led rather than tech-led. So far, the main purposes driving AI use by career practitioners are to find careers information, create resources, complete administrative tasks and support guidance sessions. Some AI developers are designing specific tools to support access to careers information and advice, while also signposting to human support. Young people are increasingly using AI tools to find careers information and advice, help draft CVs and cover letters, prepare for job interviews and answer questions in application forms. Employers use AI to sift through candidates for jobs more quickly. In parallel, tech enthusiasts are experimenting with AI systems to test their capabilities and limitations. Emerging evidence suggests that there are some purposes for which AI is not currently effective including: Direct use of easily accessible AI tools such as ChatGPT, Microsoft Copilot, Google Gemini and others by young people for careers advice and guidance without a professional human adviser in the loop. ‘Autopilot’ use of these accessible AI tools by career practitioners leading to ‘AI slop’ in written outputs or multi-modal resources (such as visual or video content). There are also specific risks associated with inappropriate use of AI including: Unintentionally sharing personal data by using AI to create CVs or sharing personal information with LLMs to find tailored advice. Making poor choices about education and career pathways due to inaccurate and biased outputs. Emotional harm and social isolation for young people through over-reliance on AI support and unrealistic expectations of the support that AI can provide. Undermining investment in qualified careers advisers. Overuse of AI to sift through applicants for jobs where reliance on keywords can miss or penalise applicants who may have written non-AI suitable applications, undermining diversity in the job market and workplace in the longer term. Overuse of AI by applicants which can remove personality or nuance from applications, resulting in a high number of generic applications that overwhelm employers. Some leaders within the careers sector are currently looking at ways to mitigate these risks by taking an active role in thought leadership, technology development and training relating to AI. As a result, some careers-focused AI tools are being informed by theories about career development, an understanding of labour market data and the context for implementation across education phases and the four nations, and there are forums for career practitioners to share learning about AI from their own use and networks. We identified areas where further work by the careers sector could be beneficial to ensure the adoption or ongoing use of AI is purpose-led: Engaging with AI developers in related areas . For example, FE [133] and HE providers are experimenting with LLM chatbots for purposes such as recruitment, enrolment, student support and tutoring. Employability services are also developing chatbots targeted at adult jobseekers. [134] It may be beneficial to share learning about different hybrid approaches to services, conversational flows, prompts and mitigating risks through fine-tuning. It will also be important for careers experts to continue to articulate the distinction between information, advice and guidance to ensure that AI does not undermine professional support. Engaging to a greater extent with young people to understand their lived experience of using AI and how this is impacting their career support needs . The findings from research with young people aged 14–24 years through the Grown up? Journeys to adulthood project revealed both a desire for relational human career guidance as well as access to ‘self-service’ tools and an attraction to the immediacy, flexibility and apparent privacy of readily available LLMs. [135] This and other research indicates an appetite for hybrid approaches but also a likelihood of increasing use of AI for career purposes that careers advisers need to manage and respond to. [136] The value of participatory research with young people has been demonstrated by Wilson’s research which concluded that chatbots should: support young people to navigate information in a way that encourages curiosity and exploration; be thoroughly tested with young people and career practitioners to determine the appropriate volume and complexity of information to be included in chatbot responses; and signpost effectively to other forms of support. [137] Promoting the use of AI as a support tool rather than a substitute or replacement for careers advisers to ensure that its use does not undermine the quality and reputation of the profession . This will involve AI developers engaging with careers experts as they design tools [138] and continued sharing of good practice and transparency about risks. Since the careers services across the UK nations are experimenting with AI in different ways, this provides an opportunity for learning through collaboration and communities of practice. Workforce development We identified four ways in which the career development workforce needs to adapt to AI: Understanding ethical and responsible use of AI within professional practice . Levels of confidence and competence in using AI vary widely across career practitioners and we heard anecdotal evidence suggesting widespread use of narrow AI and foundation models (including generic, accessible tools such as ChatGPT and bespoke tools) provided by employers in the workplace. There is also independent, informal use of generic and accessible AI tools outside of work. The Career Development Institute (CDI) has incorporated AI into its professional code of ethics [139] and is supporting its members across the UK by providing training programmes and resources relating to AI. However, the stakeholders we spoke to highlighted the need for training in AI literacy and fluency on a larger scale to reach the whole workforce, noting that this will require time and resource. [140] [141] Skills Development Scotland has made progress towards this through mandatory training on the ethical use of AI for career practitioners. Keeping abreast of changes in the labour market and skills demands in light of AI adoption . The CDI’s ‘AI and Careers Work’ paper states that career development professionals ‘must stay informed about AI’s evolving role in recruitment, job search, and professional development’ and ensure ‘that individuals make well-informed, ethical, and strategic career decisions’ by staying abreast of workforce trends. [142] Evidence suggests that some young people are changing their career plans in light of perceived impacts from AI on the labour market which may be fact or fiction. [143] This poses a challenge for career practitioners in staying up-to-date with the rapid pace of change across different sectors so that they can provide reliable advice and guidance. Careers sector organisations and local/strategic authorities play an important role in translating national data and insight about the future of work into a local context. Supporting young people to develop skills to use AI in the workplace. Recent analysis for Skills England provides some clarity about the ‘competencies and abilities required to develop, implement, manage, and interact with AI systems effectively’. [144] A key output is an AI Skills Framework that categorises AI skills into: technical; responsible and ethical; and non-technical domains, aligned with three job levels. Examples of technical skills include writing structured prompts and applying AI tools in workflows. Responsible and ethical AI skills include identifying bias in outputs and applying data protection principles. Non-technical AI skills range from being able to describe the relevance of AI for a role to planning AI strategy. It is currently unclear how best to prepare young people for these workplace skills while they are still in education, although some combination of essential employment skills (such as information literacy and problem-solving), [145] career management skills [146] and digital skills will be important. Further work is needed to clarify how responsibility for teaching AI skills to young people should be distributed across the curriculum, careers education, employer engagement activities and personal guidance. Advising young people about using AI in job applications . The use of LLMs in application documents, interview preparation and responding to employer questions appears to be an area of rapid growth, eliciting different responses from employers. Career practitioners (working with professional bodies such as the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development) can act as an important interlocutor between potential applicants and employers, helping to identify solutions to support a more equitable recruitment process. Evidence about inequalities in accessing professional jobs suggests that more collaboration is needed between employers, career practitioners and the young people applying for jobs. [147] Oversight and evaluation of AI In the absence of specific AI regulation and legislation in the UK, the guardrails around the adoption and use of AI leave important gaps, and rely on a combination of professional codes of ethics (as outlined above), service-level licences for AI products such as Microsoft Copilot, government-issued guidance on procurement of EdTech, guidance on procurement of AI for the public sector, data protection and equality legislation. Guidance to support the development of products for children under the age of 18 may also play an advisory role. In England, the Department for Education (DfE) supports schools, multi-academy trusts and local authorities with general EdTech procurement, providing guidance on products and services used to support statutory duties, administration and safeguarding (‘education management systems’). [148] However, the supplier directory on the Everything ICT website does not appear to include career guidance digital or AI tools. FE colleges and HE institutions follow public sector procurement guidance, with Jisc (the lead body for digital infrastructure in UK tertiary education) offering intermediary support. [149] [150] In early 2025 (updated in 2026), the DfE published guidance on the product safety standards expectations for AI used in schools and colleges. [151] [152] The guidance is targeted at EdTech developers and suppliers and is relevant for careers-related technology. It covers: filtering to prevent access to harmful and inappropriate content activity logging for monitoring and reporting security against malicious use or exposure to harm privacy and data protection not using intellectual property for commercial purposes without consent child-centred design and testing. This guidance responds to the calls made in a 2023 report by the 5Rights Foundation and the Digital Futures Commission, which recommended standardised certification criteria to be established for schools, similar to those for digital technologies in health. [153] This approach would require demonstration of compliance with ‘relevant legislation, regulation for data protection and security, and good practices of interoperability and risk-benefit calculation’. The Generative AI guidance [154] supports education providers and EdTech suppliers to comply with a range of legislation including the UK GDPR, [155] the Data Protection Act 2018, [156] the Equality Act 2010, [157] statutory guidance on keeping children safe in education, [158] the ICO age-appropriate design code, [159] and the ICO guidance on AI and data protection. [160] It does not provide standards or a process for assessing the effectiveness of EdTech products for achieving their intended outcomes. The UK government has also issued guidance for making government datasets ready for AI, recognising that ‘the realisation of AI driven public value depends not only on computational capability, but on the availability of accessible, consistent, high-quality, and trustworthy datasets.’ The guidance defines the foundations of AI-ready data and sets out an action plan for public sector bodies. [161] The document does not include specific reference to labour market or education data but lays out principles that could be relevant in the future. The digital environment for career guidance is complex. Career practitioners in schools and colleges who are employed by national careers services may be using Microsoft Copilot licences. Students may have access to digital careers tools through their education provider, which may or may not have an interface with management information systems. In Scotland, young people retain access to My World of Work as they move between education institutions, while elsewhere they may lose data portability if the institutions they attend use different platforms. In parallel, careers advisers and young people may be making independent use of accessible tools like ChatGPT. Evaluation frameworks and evidence For career practitioners, careers services, education providers and young people to make better-informed decisions about the procurement and use of AI, there is an urgent need for independent, impartial evidence about the effectiveness of AI tools. Most evaluation evidence to date focuses on implementation feasibility and acceptability, but we know very little about the impact of AI tools on education and employment outcomes, on young people’s social and emotional skills and wellbeing, or on the impact of how AI can or cannot support human-to-human relationships including in the relational delivery of guidance and expert support. Building such evidence will be challenging given the pace of technological change and new tools appearing on the market, the time needed to evaluate medium- to longer-term outcomes, and the multifaceted nature of career guidance. To support progress in this area, the Nuffield Foundation has recently awarded funding to the Institute for Employment Research at the University of Warwick to develop and trial an assessment protocol to be used for evaluating AI careers advice in contrast to human advisers. The study will take a collaborative approach to build sector consensus about appropriate evaluation approaches and thresholds for evidence to inform practical guidelines and specific policies on tool usage. [162] There is also progress towards evaluating broader EdTech (not specifically related to career guidance) with the establishment of the DfE-funded EdTech Evidence Board by the Chartered College of Teaching. The plan is for the board to evaluate the effectiveness and impact of EdTech products against an agreed set of criteria informed by the education sector. [163] Meanwhile, the DfE is exploring EdTech ‘testbed’ approaches for structured environments where new EdTech can be tested in real-world educational settings [164] and is expanding a pilot of AI and EdTech in schools. [165] This report and the findings above reinforce the need for a What Works Centre for AI in Public Services, as called for by the Ada Lovelace Institute. Summary The key points from this section are: Establishing appropriate, ethical and effective use of AI in a career guidance context requires a purpose-led approach, comprehensive workforce development and a clearer approach to oversight and evaluation. These actions require input from government, careers sector leaders, career practitioners, education leaders and AI developers. A more structured approach is needed to support young people to develop the skills to thrive in a labour market where AI is widely adopted and to navigate the changing landscape of job applications and recruitment. Alongside clearer policies and frameworks to ensure safety, robust evidence about effectiveness and impact is needed to support proportionate use. Conclusion Key findings With the labour market changing rapidly in response to technological transformation and other global trends, young people’s need for high-quality careers support is greater than ever. This report has explored the potential for AI to improve young people’s access to careers information, advice and guidance to support their transitions from education to work. Our review has identified examples of both narrow AI and foundation models being used in the context of career guidance and young people’s transitions. Narrow AI is prevalent in job matching tools and job recommendation systems and in producing labour market information (LMI). The use of foundation models is emergent amongst career practitioners and young people, shaped by varying levels of interest, confidence and competence. This paper focuses on the use of AI tools powered by foundation models, particularly LLMs with conversational interfaces, to support young people’s career decision-making. It is possible that AI tools could help young people to explore careers, consider what pathways align with their skills and interests, and inform their decision-making. Current evidence suggests that such tools need to draw on high-quality LMI, use conversational flows that encourage curiosity and exploration, and be used in the context of human professional support. This technology is currently available in a minority of schools and colleges. AI use has not yet been evaluated in the UK for its effectiveness for different use cases. AI is being used by some career practitioners for resource creation, finding information, and administrative tasks. Young people are using it to support applications for courses and jobs and to prepare for interviews. Emerging evidence reveals a mixed picture of opportunities and risks, and large research gaps. We suggest three broad foundations for AI development and implementation in a career guidance context to maximise the benefits and reduce the risks based on what we understand so far: purpose-led use of AI, further workforce development, and greater oversight and evaluation of AI tools. Recommendations The decisions and actions of a wide range of stakeholders will influence the future development, implementation and impact of AI on young people’s transitions from education to work. We offer recommendations tailored to each stakeholder group to support positive and equitable outcomes for young people. Many of these recommendations also apply to adult career guidance and to EdTech more widely. Policymakers should: Invest in the careers infrastructure to ensure that education providers can give every young person access to personal guidance from a human professional in addition to appropriate digital support. Plan for ongoing workforce development for careers advisers and careers leaders. This should cover how to use AI responsibly and ethically, and how to advise young people on the way these new technologies are transforming education and the labour market. Ensure wide access to high-quality, up-to-date labour market information. Share learning across the UK nations to inform future AI use in careers information, advice and guidance. Use evaluation evidence from career guidance tools to contribute to the necessary regulatory and legislative frameworks for governance of AI technologies. Strengthen strategic regional leadership and involve employers in shaping careers support in line with local and business priorities. AI developers should: Build with ‘safety by design’ at the core of products. Engage with end users and research to understand how young people use LLM chatbots and the guardrails needed to ensure safety. Develop and test products to support young people with different special educational needs and disabilities. Engage with careers experts to understand the purpose, practice and benefits of career guidance and reflect this throughout the lifecycle of design, development and deployment of the product. Ensure the data used to fine-tune foundation model-based AI tools used in career guidance is appropriate, necessary, relevant and as representative as possible. Complete the Algorithmic Transparency Recording Standard (if in the public sector) for greater transparency about how AI tools work, the data they draw on and any evidence of their effectiveness. Expand and publish evaluation evidence beyond capturing the perceptions of users to measure the impact on career-related outcomes. Education leaders should: Assess the need for AI products and take a purpose-led approach to their procurement, development and use. Provide clear AI policies to careers advisers working with young people. Ensure that every young person has access to personal guidance from a human professional in addition to appropriate digital support. Career development practitioners should: Support teachers, students and parents/carers with AI literacy and safety. Target professional (human) careers support at students from disadvantaged backgrounds. Understand how students are using and responding to AI. Ask digital providers for evidence of effectiveness and how models work to inform procurement decisions. Undertake a data protection impact assessment (DPIA) before deploying or using any data-driven tool, including AI tools powered by foundation models. Employers should: Share insights on AI in the workplace with young people and teachers through career talks, work experience, internships and curriculum resources. Share policies on AI use in recruitment including how candidates are permitted to use AI tools. Ensure any use of AI in recruitment processes promotes inclusion and fairness. Researchers and funders should focus their research on: The effectiveness of different hybrid models of chatbot- and human-led guidance for different use cases. This should include different target groups of young people and a range of career guidance outcomes including motivation, informed decision-making, pathway satisfaction, understanding the labour market, and employment outcomes. Evaluation frameworks to build trust and confidence in findings and provide a basis for decision-making. These should consider existing frameworks that measure career-related skills and outcomes. How to design and implement hybrid models inclusively and to reduce inequalities in access to guidance. Effective use of AI by career development practitioners to enhance the quality of resources, communication and guidance. Appropriate, ethical and effective use of AI for work experience and other employer engagement activities. Next steps for the Ada Lovelace Institute and Nuffield Foundation Both organisations published strategies in 2025 that demonstrate an ongoing commitment to build evidence about AI and data-driven technologies, how people and society are affected by them and what a positive vision of the future looks like. For further information about our strategic goals and funding priorities visit: Ada Lovelace Institute Nuffield Foundation Acknowledgements This paper was lead-authored by Emily Tanner and Renate Samson. The authors would like to thank Josh Hillman and Imogen Parker for their valuable feedback and oversight, and Harry Farmer for guidance on technical points. We are very grateful to the 36 stakeholders who took part in exploratory conversations between August and December 2025, and who generously shared their perspectives and linked us to other contacts and published papers. The following gave consent to be named: David Morgan and Michael Larbalestier, Career Development Institute Claire Toogood, Graduate Futures Institute Laura Hawksworth and Ella Bujok, The Careers & Enterprise Company Tom Shirt, Gatsby Charitable Foundation Dr Deirdre Hughes and Dr Chris Percy, CareerChat UK Marianne Wilson, Edinburgh Napier University Alex Zarifeh, ATLP Futures Readiness Steve Cole and Jo Carrington, Morrisby Jen Persson, Defend Digital Me David Railton, Faculty Chris Webb, Higher Education careers professional, freelance careers writer and podcaster Roddy Peters, Windsor Forest Colleges Group Justin Kerr, Department for the Economy, Northern Ireland Clare Worsdale, Department for Education Hannah Kitchen, OECD Victoria Wade, University of London Careers Service Steph Wright, Scottish AI Alliance Michael Webb, Jisc A draft of the paper was externally reviewed. The authors would like to thank the reviewers: Mary Curnock Cook CBE Dr Deirdre Hughes OBE Marianne Wilson Laura Hawksworth Ella Bujok Lesley Thain [1] Department for Work and Pensions, ‘The Employment of Disabled People 2024’ <https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/the-employment-of-disabled-people-2024/the-employment-of-disabled-people-2024#pop-ulations> accessed 19 December 2025. [2] Nuffield Foundation, ‘Grown up? Journeys to Adulthood: Putting Young People’s Experiences at the Heart of Research and Policy’ <https://www.nuffieldfoundation.org/research/our-programmes/grown-up> accessed 24 November 2025. [3] Charlie Mayfield, ‘Keep Britain Working Review: Discovery’ (Department for Work and Pensions, Department for Business and Trade, 2025) <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/keep-britain-working-review-discovery/keep-britain-working-review-discovery#the-landscape> accessed 15 October 2025. [4] Joanna Partridge, ‘Gen Z Faces “Job-Pocalypse” as Global Firms Prioritise AI over New Hires, Report Says’ The Guardian (9 October 2025) <https://www.theguardian.com/money/2025/oct/09/gen-z-face-job-pocalypse-as-global-firms-prioritise-ai-over-new-hires-report-says> accessed 10 November 2025. [5] Michael Scott and others, ‘Shifting Sands: Anticipating Changes in the Future Labour Market and Supporting the Workers at Greatest Risk’ (NFER 2024) Working Paper 5 <https://www.nfer.ac.uk/publications/the-skills-imperative-2035-shifting-sands-anticipating-changes-in-the-future-labour-market-and-supporting-the-workers-at-greatest-risk/> accessed 19 December 2025. [6] L Bocock, M Scott and J Hillary, ‘Skills Imperative 2035: Creating a System of Lifelong Learning to Provide the Essential Skills for Tomorrow’s Workforce’ (NFER 2025) <https://www.nfer.ac.uk/media/4ulc0syg/skills_imperative_2035_final_report.pdf> accessed 4 December 2025. [7] Institute of Student Employers, ‘How Exposed Are Graduate Jobs to AI & Can Employers Respond?’ (13 October 2025) <https://ise.org.uk/knowledge/insights/490/how_exposed_are_graduate_jobs_to_ai_can_employers_respond> accessed 24 November 2025. [8] Prospects Luminate, ‘Early Careers Survey’ (2025) <https://graduatemarkettrends.cdn.prismic.io/graduatemarkettrends/aDb6SidWJ-7kSn7u_early-careers-survey-2025.pdf> accessed 13 November 2025. [9] Public First, ‘Gen(eration) AI: How AI Could Transform Youth Employment’ (King’s Trust) <https://assets.ctfassets.net/qq0roodynp09/6KK2APvvsTfZM59sEQLR1j/e3b4bdfcca9fb047f75be1fdec4023f9/KT_-_How_Ai_is_transforming_Report_v6.pdf> accessed 7 January 2026. [10] Sorah Gluck, ‘A Short Guide to FE and Skills across the four Countries of the UK’ (2025) <https://www.edge.co.uk/documents/547/DD1654_-_Four_nations_skills_guide_2025_FINAL_FINAL_UETXgl1.pdf> accessed 18 December 2025. [11] Department for Education, Department for Work and Pensions, and Department for Science, Innovation and Technology, ‘Post-16 Education and Skills White Paper’ (2025) <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/post-16-education-and-skills-white-paper> accessed 29 October 2025. [12] The Careers & Enterprise Company, ‘Gatsby Benchmark Results for 2024/25’ (2025) <https://www.careersandenterprise.co.uk/evidence-and-reports/insight-briefing-gatsby-benchmark-results-for-202425/> accessed 24 November 2025. [13] The Careers & Enterprise Company, ‘Learner Career Readiness in 2024/25’ <https://www.careersandenterprise.co.uk/media/ixqnumwu/insight-briefing-learner-career-readiness-in-2024-25.pdf> accessed 19 December 2025. [14] Department for Culture, Media and Sport, ‘Youth Matters: State of the Nation’ <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/youth-matters-state-of-the-nation/youth-matters-state-of-the-nation> accessed 12 December 2025. [15] Youth Employment UK, ‘Youth Voice Census 2025 Report’ (2025) <https://www.youthemployment.org.uk/dev/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/Youth-Voice-Census-2025-Results-Report.pdf> accessed 15 October 2025. [16] Hopkins Van Mil, ‘Grown Up? Journeys to Adulthood. Education to Work “Deep Dive Workshops” Findings Report’ (2025) <https://www.nuffieldfoundation.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Deep-Dive-Workshop-Education-into-work-report-findings-1.pdf> accessed 15 October 2025. [17] Career Development Policy Group, ‘The Vital Role of Career Guidance in Boosting Opportunities for All: Policy Brief’ (July 2025) <https://img1.wsimg.com/blobby/go/2e9e2b71-fb98-45b9-bf68-875b169d5ac5/downloads/672103fc-1052-435a-bb73-f979d8af2815/Schools%20policy%20brief%20July%202025%20FINAL.pdf?ver=1753719949938> accessed 15 October 2025. [18] Claire Toogood, ‘What Are the Priorities for Higher Education Careers and Employability in 2025?’ ( Prospects Luminate , February 2025) <https://luminate.prospects.ac.uk/what-are-the-priorities-for-higher-education-careers-and-employability-in-2025> accessed 6 November 2025. [19] Tristram Hooley and Tom Staunton, ‘The Role of Digital Technology in Career Development’, The Oxford Handbook of Career Development (Oxford University Press 2020). [20] AG Watts, ‘The Role of Information and Communication Technologies in Integrated Career Information and Guidance Systems: A Policy Perspective.’ 2 International Journal for Educational and Vocational Guidance 139. [21] Ada Lovelace Institute, ‘Foundation Models in the Public Sector’ (2023) <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/evidence-review/foundation-models-public-sector/> accessed 16 March 2026. [22] Renate Samson and Kruakae Pothong, ‘A Learning Curve? A Landscape Review of AI and Education in the UK’ (Ada Lovelace Institute, 2025) <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/Ada-Lovelace-Institute-Nuffield-Foundation-A-learning-curve.pdf> accessed 15 October 2025. [23] The Gatsby Charitable Foundation, ‘GOOD CAREER GUIDANCE: The next 10 Years’ (2024) <https://cdn.gatsbybenchmarks.org.uk/app/uploads/2024/11/good-career-guidance-the-next-10-years-report.pdf> accessed 27 October 2025. [24] Career Development Institute, ‘What Is Career Development?’ <https://www.thecdi.net/about-us/career-development-and-the-cdi/what-is-career-development> accessed 27 October 2025. [25] The Gatsby Charitable Foundation, ‘Good Career Guidance’ (2014) <https://cdn.gatsbybenchmarks.org.uk/app/uploads/2024/09/gatsby-sir-john-holman-good-career-guidance-2014.pdf> accessed 27 October 2025. [26] European Training Foundation and others, ‘Investing in Career Guidance: Joint Statement of the Interagency Working Group on Career Guidance’ (2021) <https://www.etf.europa.eu/sites/default/files/2025-10/ETF_CGC_Leaflet_2025_EN.pdf> accessed 27 January 2026. [27] The Gatsby Charitable Foundation, ‘GOOD CAREER GUIDANCE: The next 10 Years’ (2024) <https://cdn.gatsbybenchmarks.org.uk/app/uploads/2024/11/good-career-guidance-the-next-10-years-report.pdf> accessed 27 October 2025. [28] The Careers & Enterprise Company, ‘Who we are’ <https://www.careersandenterprise.co.uk/who-we-are/> 19 December 2025. [29] ICO, ‘Definitions’ <https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/uk-gdpr-guidance-and-resources/artificial-intelligence/explaining-decisions-made-with-artificial-intelligence/part-1-the-basics-of-explaining-ai/definitions/> accessed 26 November 2025. [30] UCAS.com, ‘The UCAS Careers Quiz – Personalised Career Matches’ <https://www.ucas.com/advisers/careersquiz> accessed 26 November 2025. [31] Simran Jaiswal, ‘How LinkedIn Uses AI for Job Matching & Content Curation’ (LinkedIn, 1 August 2025) <https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/how-linkedin-uses-ai-job-matching-content-curation-simran-jaiswal-geajc/> accessed 26 November 2025. [32] LinkedIn, ‘FAQs for Age-Based Protections on LinkedIn’ (2024) <https://www.linkedin.com/help/linkedin/answer/a6854067?hcppcid=search> accessed 25 November 2025. [33] Lightcast, <https://lightcast.io/> accessed 25 November 2025. [34] Alex Doyle, ‘Emsi Skills: A New Language for Employers, Educators, and Students’ (Lightcast, 17 September 2019) <https://lightcast.io/resources/blog/emsi-skills-a-new-language-for-employers-educators-and-students> accessed 26 November 2025. [35] Julie Lassébie and others, ‘Speaking the Same Language: A Machine Learning Approach to Classify Skills in Burning Glass Technologies Data’ (OECD, 2021) <https://one.oecd.org/document/DELSA/ELSA/WD/SEM(2021)10/en/pdf> accessed 26 November 2025. [36] Ada Lovelace Institute, ‘Foundation Models in the Public Sector’ (2023) <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/evidence-review/foundation-models-public-sector/> accessed 16 March 2026. [37] Marianne Wilson and others, ‘Participatory Design with Domain Experts: A Delphi Study for a Career Support Chatbot’, CUI ’24 (Association for Computing Machinery, 2024) <https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3640794.3665534> accessed 15 October 2025. [38] Tristram Hooley and Tom Staunton, ‘The Role of Digital Technology in Career Development’, The Oxford Handbook of Career Development (Oxford University Press, 2020) <https://repository.derby.ac.uk/download/4202bede8796b80cf27f8276854eecaf443a7eaa4ad220261b6a4def6f1dcc9c/282537/Hooley%20%26%20Staunton%20-%20The%20role%20of%20digital%20technology.pdf> accessed 15 October 2025. [39] Graduate Futures Institute, ‘2025/26 Sector Benchmarks and Insights Report’ (2026) <https://www.graduatefutures.org/Resources> accessed 11 February 2026. [40] Deirdre Hughes and Chris Percy, ‘Careers 2035: What Does AI Mean for the Future of Career Guidance?’ (2023) <https://cicichat.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2025/08/Morrisby-AI-Report.pdf> accessed 9 October 2025. [41] Danny Mirza, ‘Can AI Transform Careers Services?’ ( Prospects Luminate , November 2023) <https://luminate.prospects.ac.uk/can-ai-transform-careers-services> accessed 6 November 2025. [42] Graduate Futures Institute (previously known as AGCAS), ‘AI in Higher Education Careers and Employability: 2024/25 Toolkit’ <https://www.graduatefutures.org/Resources> accessed 11 February 2026. [43] Wendy Pearson, ‘AI in Career Guidance: Prompt Building Blocks’ <https://www.thecdi.net/getattachment/e1d7d504-2d6a-4b0f-9f46-53d14b44136d/Wendy-Chatbot-demo.pdf> accessed 28 November 2025. [44] Deirdre Hughes, Chris Percy and Caroline Tolond, ‘LLMs for HE Careers Provision’ (Jisc, 2024) <https://graduatemarkettrends.cdn.prismic.io/graduatemarkettrends/ZpkVxx5LeNNTxRXf_llms-for-he-careers-provision.pdf> accessed 15 October 2025. [45] Prospects Luminate, ‘Early Careers Survey’ (2025) <https://graduatemarkettrends.cdn.prismic.io/graduatemarkettrends/aDb6SidWJ-7kSn7u_early-careers-survey-2025.pdf> accessed 13 November 2025. [46] Marianne Wilson and others, ‘Participatory Design with Domain Experts: A Delphi Study for a Career Support Chatbot’, CUI ’24 (Association for Computing Machinery, 2024) <https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3640794.3665534> accessed 15 October 2025. [47] Morrisby, ‘CourseNav: AI Assistant for Student Queries’ <https://www.coursenav.ai/> accessed 27 October 2025. [48] Morrisby, ‘Morrisby and AI’ <https://www.morrisby.com/blog/morrisby-and-ai> accessed 27 October 2025. [49] CiCi Chatbot, <https://cicichat.co.uk/> accessed 27 October 2025. [50] WorldSkills UK, ‘New Careers Advice Toolkit Empowers Young People to Explore Apprenticeship and Technical Career Paths’ (19 February 2025) <https://www.worldskillsuk.org/news/new-careers-advice-toolkit/> accessed 28 October 2025. [51] Arden University, ‘Arden Launches New Chatbot to Help with Careers’ (7 October 2022) <https://arden.ac.uk/knowledge-base/latest-news/Arden-launches-new-online-careers-chatbot> accessed 27 October 2025. [52] Kevin Wright, ‘Durham Works: Introducing CiCi Careers Chatbot’ (DurhamWorks, September 2025) <https://durhamworks.info/introducing-cici-careers-chatbot/> accessed 27 October 2025. [53] CiCi Chatbot, ‘Webinars’ <https://cicichat.co.uk/webinars/> accessed 28 October 2025. [54] Dominic Atkinson, ‘Introducing Ask Nim — Your AI Career Co-Pilot’ (Stay Nimble) <https://staynimble.co.uk/blog/introducing-ask-nim-your-ai-career-co-pilot/> accessed 27 January 2026. [55] ‘Download Our Mobile App and Get More from The Student Room’ ( The Student Room ) <https://www.thestudentroom.co.uk/help/download-the-student-room-mobile-app/> accessed 27 January 2026. [56] ‘An AI-Driven Assistant That Enables Careers Staff to Provide Personalised Support at Scale’ (Purlos) <https://www.purlos.com/outcore/> accessed 27 January 2026. [57] ‘A Bot Named Winnie’ (Jisc, 17 September 2024) <https://www.jisc.ac.uk/member-stories/a-bot-named-winnie> accessed 10 November 2025. [58] House of Commons Work and Pensions Committee, ‘Get Britain Working: Creating a New Jobs and Careers Service’ (2025) HC 1286 <https://committees.parliament.uk/publications/49390/documents/263299/default/> accessed 10 November 2025. [59] Wysa, ‘Mental Health Redefined’ <https://www.wysa.com/> accessed 28 November 2025. [60] Ada Lovelace Institute, ‘How Can (A)I Help? An Exploration of AI Assistants’ <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/project/ai-virtual-assistants/> accessed 19 December 2025. [61] Anthropic, ‘Anthropic Partners with the UK Government to Bring AI Assistance to GOV.UK Services’ <https://www.anthropic.com/news/gov-UK-partnership> accessed 29 January 2026. [62] Harry Farmer, ‘The Dilemmas of Delegation: An Analysis of Policy Challenges Posed by Advanced AI Assistants and Natural-Language AI Agents’ (Ada Lovelace Institute, 2025) <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/report/dilemmas-of-delegation/> accessed 12 December 2025. [63] Julia Smakman and Harry Farmer, ‘The Regulation of Delegation: Are AI Advisers, Agents and Companions Regulated in the UK?’ (Ada Lovelace Institute, 2025) <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/policy-briefing/the-regulation-of-delegation/> accessed 19 December 2025. [64] Institute of Student Employers, ‘Student Recruitment Survey 2024’ (2024) <https://ise.org.uk/knowledge/insights/410/record_graduate_job_applications> accessed 28 November 2025. [65] Institute of Student Employers, ‘Student Recruitment Survey 2025’ <https://ise.org.uk/knowledge/insights/505/how_are_employers_using_ai_in_early_careers_recruitment> accessed 28 November 2025. [66] UCAS, ‘A Guide to Using AI and ChatGPT with Your Personal Statement’ <https://www.ucas.com/applying/applying-to-university/writing-your-personal-statement/a-guide-to-using-ai-and-chatgpt-with-your-personal-statement> accessed 27 October 2025. [67] Prospects Luminate, ‘Early Careers Survey’ (2025) <https://graduatemarkettrends.cdn.prismic.io/graduatemarkettrends/aDb6SidWJ-7kSn7u_early-careers-survey-2025.pdf> accessed 13 November 2025. [68] Institute of Student Employers, ‘Student Recruitment Survey 2024’ (2024) <https://ise.org.uk/knowledge/insights/410/record_graduate_job_applications> accessed 28 November 2025. [69] Michael Larbalestier and Marianne Wilson, The Career Development Professional’s AI Toolkit (Trotman Publishing, forthcoming). [70] M Williams, E Pollard and A Clark, ‘The Careers Adviser Workforce 2024’ (Gatsby Charitable Foundation, 2024) <file:///C:/Users/EmilyTanner/Downloads/gatsby-careers-advisers-2024-report-22-11-24%20(1).pdf> accessed 18 December 2025. [71] National Institute for Career Education and Counselling and Career Development Institute, ‘At the Cutting Edge: Artificial Intelligence in Careers Practice’ (2 October 2025) <https://www.nicec.org/events/Artificial_Intelligence_in_careers_practice> accessed 28 November 2025. [72] CDI, ‘Career Development Institute Code of Ethics’ (2024) <https://www.thecdi.net/CDI/media/Write/COE/Code-of-Ethics-2024.pdf> accessed 9 October 2025. [73] Chris Webb, ‘TheWeekInCareers’ ( Substack ) <https://theweekincareers.substack.com/> accessed 28 November 2025. [74] CiCi Chat, ‘Webinars’ <https://cicichat.co.uk/webinars/> accessed 28 October 2025. [75] Tristram Hooley, ‘Adventures in Career Development’ <https://adventuresincareerdevelopment.wordpress.com/> accessed 28 November 2025. [76] ‘Arthur Terry Learning Partnership Futures Readiness’ <https://futuresreadiness.com/> accessed 29 October 2025. [77] Graduate Futures Institute, ‘2025/26 Sector Benchmarks and Insights Report’ (2026) <https://www.graduatefutures.org/Resources> accessed 11 February 2026. [78] Prospects Luminate, ‘Early Careers Survey’ (2025) <https://graduatemarkettrends.cdn.prismic.io/graduatemarkettrends/aDb6SidWJ-7kSn7u_early-careers-survey-2025.pdf> accessed 13 November 2025. [79] Public First, ‘Gen(eration) AI: How AI Could Transform Youth Employment’ (King’s Trust) <https://assets.ctfassets.net/qq0roodynp09/6KK2APvvsTfZM59sEQLR1j/e3b4bdfcca9fb047f75be1fdec4023f9/KT_-_How_Ai_is_transforming_Report_v6.pdf> accessed 7 January 2026. [80] Becky Francis, ‘Curriculum and Assessment Review Building a World-Class Curriculum for All (Final Report)’ (2025) <https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/690b96bbc22e4ed8b051854d/Curriculum_and_Assessment_Review_final_report_-_Building_a_world-class_curriculum_for_all.pdf> accessed 24 November 2025. [81] Department for Education, ‘Careers Guidance and Access for Education and Training Providers’ (2025) <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/careers-guidance-provision-for-young-people-in-schools/careers-guidance-and-access-for-education-and-training-providers> accessed 15 October 2025. [82] The Careers & Enterprise Company, ‘Modern Work Experience’ <https://www.careersandenterprise.co.uk/modern-work-experience/> accessed 19 December 2025. [83] The Careers & Enterprise Company, ‘Employer Standards: Shaping Your Future Workforce’ <https://www.careersandenterprise.co.uk/employers/employer-standards/> accessed 19 December 2025. [84] ‘Skills Builder Universal Framework 2.0’ <https://www.skillsbuilder.uk/universal-framework> accessed 29 October 2025. [85] Skills England, ‘AI Skills for the UK Workforce’ (2025) <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-skills-for-the-uk-workforce> accessed 28 November 2025. [86] Skills England, ‘The UK Standard Skills Classification’ (2025) <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/uk-standard-skills-classification-interim-development-report/the-uk-standard-skills-classification> accessed 28 November 2025. [87] The Careers & Enterprise Company, ‘Why Upgrade to Compass+’ <https://careersandenterprise.zendesk.com/hc/en-gb/articles/4404118622994-Why-upgrade-to-Compass> accessed 28 November 2025. [88] My World of Work, <https://www.myworldofwork.co.uk/> accessed 28 October 2025. [89] Economic Policy Centre, Ulster University, ‘Skills Barometer: 2023-33. Information Pack’ <https://www.economy-ni.gov.uk/sites/default/files/2025-02/Skills%20Barometer%202023-33_FINAL_with%20accessibility%20checks%20%2831.01.25%29.PDF> accessed 19 December 2025. [90] LMI For All, <https://www.lmiforall.org.uk/> accessed 8 December 2025. [91] ‘Career Management Skills Explained’ ( Skills Development Scotland ) <https://www.skillsdevelopmentscotland.co.uk/what-we-do/scotlands-career-service/career-management-skills-explained> accessed 4 December. [92] OECD, ‘Observatory on Digital Technologies in Career Guidance for Youth (ODiCY)’ <https://www.oecd.org/en/toolkits/odicy.html?orderBy=mostRelevant&page=0> accessed 28 October 2025. [93] Deirdre Hughes, ‘An International Evidence Review: Targeted and Effective Careers Support Interventions’ (Department for the Economy, NI, 2024) <https://www.economy-ni.gov.uk/publications/international-evidence-review-targeted-and-effective-careers-support-interventions> accessed 15 October 2025. [94] Department of Education and Department for the Economy, ‘Careers Action Plan 2025-2028’ (2025) <https://www.economy-ni.gov.uk/sites/default/files/2025-06/Careers%20Action%20Plan%202025-2028_1.pdf> accessed 15 October 2025. [95] Marianne Wilson and others, ‘Opportunities and Risks in the Use of AI in Career Development Practice’ (2022) Journal of the National Institute for Career Education and Counselling 48 <https://nicecjournal.co.uk/index.php/nc/article/view/395/395> accessed 28 October 2025. [96] Marianne Wilson, ‘Human-Centred Approach to Chatbot Design’ <https://www.thecdi.net/getmedia/258713c6-dffa-43bd-9cb8-2b16b3614cfc/Marianne-Wilson-Parallel-Session-2.pdf> accessed 28 October 2025. [97] Marianne Wilson and others, ‘Participatory Design for Positive Impact: Behind the Scenes of Three NLP Projects’, (2025) Proceedings of the Fourth Workshop on NLP for Positive Impact (NLP4PI) <https://aclanthology.org/2025.nlp4pi-1.21/> accessed 28 October 2025. [98] Aleksander Bielinski and David Brazier, ‘From Retrieval to Ranking: A Two-Stage Neural Framework for Automated Skill Extraction’ (RecSys in HR ’25) <https://recsyshr.aau.dk/wp-content/uploads/2025/09/RecSysHR2025-paper_5.pdf> accessed 27 January 2025. [99] Careers Wales, ‘CareersCraft on Minecraft’ <https://careerswales.gov.wales/education-and-teaching-professionals/teaching-and-learning-resources/careerscraft-on-minecraft> accessed 28 October 2025. [100] Department for Work and Pensions, HM Treasury, and Department for Education, ‘Get Britain Working White Paper’ (2024) <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/get-britain-working-white-paper/get-britain-working-white-paper> accessed 15 December 2025. [101] Deirdre Hughes and Chris Percy, ‘Careers 2035: What Does AI Mean for the Future of Career Guidance?’ (2023) <https://cicichat.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2025/08/Morrisby-AI-Report.pdf> accessed 9 October 2025. [102] Graduate Futures Institute (previously known as AGCAS), ‘AI in Higher Education Careers and Employability: 2024/25 Toolkit’ <https://www.graduatefutures.org/Resources> accessed 11 February 2026. [103] Department for Education, Department for Work and Pensions, and Department for Science, Innovation and Technology, ‘Post-16 Education and Skills White Paper’ (2025) <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/post-16-education-and-skills-white-paper> accessed 29 October 2025. [104] Department for Work and Pensions, HM Treasury, and Department for Education, ‘Get Britain Working White Paper’ (2024) <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/get-britain-working-white-paper/get-britain-working-white-paper> accessed 15 December 2025. [105] Roddy Peters, ‘Winning With Winnie: Developing Our Own Personal AI’ ( Teaching Times , 24 March 2025) <https://www.teachingtimes.com/winning-with-winnie-developing-our-own-personal-ai/> accessed 2 December 2025. [106] Morrisby, ‘CourseNav: AI Assistant for Student Queries’ <https://www.coursenav.ai/> accessed 27 October 2025. [107] Career Development Institute, ‘What Is Career Development?’ <https://www.thecdi.net/about-us/career-development-and-the-cdi/what-is-career-development> accessed 27 October 2025. [108] CiCi Chatbot, <https://cicichat.co.uk/> accessed 27 October 2025. [109] Marianne Wilson and others, ‘Participatory Design with Domain Experts: A Delphi Study for a Career Support Chatbot’, CUI ’24 (Association for Computing Machinery, 2024) <https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3640794.3665534> accessed 28 October 2025. [110] Marianne Wilson, ‘Human-Centred Approach to Chatbot Design’ <https://www.thecdi.net/getmedia/258713c6-dffa-43bd-9cb8-2b16b3614cfc/Marianne-Wilson-Parallel-Session-2.pdf> accessed 28 October 2025. [111] Deirdre Hughes, Chris Percy and Caroline Tolond, ‘LLMs for HE Careers Provision’ (Jisc, 2024) <https://graduatemarkettrends.cdn.prismic.io/graduatemarkettrends/ZpkVxx5LeNNTxRXf_llms-for-he-careers-provision.pdf> accessed 15 October 2025. [112] Prospects Luminate, ‘Early Careers Survey’ (2025) <https://graduatemarkettrends.cdn.prismic.io/graduatemarkettrends/aDb6SidWJ-7kSn7u_early-careers-survey-2025.pdf> accessed 13 November 2025. [113] Hopkins Van Mil, ‘Born Connected: How Gen Z Navigate Their Digital Lives’ (2025) <https://www.nuffieldfoundation.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/DDW-Digital-Lives-Findings-Report_FINAL-.pdf> accessed 29 October 2025. [114] Emily Bender and Alex Hanna, The AI Con: How to Fight Big Tech’s Hype and Create the Future We Want (Penguin Random House 2025). [115] Renate Samson and Kruakae Pothing, ‘A Learning Curve? A Iandscape review of AI and Education in the UK’ (Ada Lovelace Institute 2025) < https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/Ada-Lovelace-Institute-Nuffield-Foundation-A-learning-curve.pdf > accessed 15 October 2025. [116] Career Development Policy Group, ‘The Vital Role of Career Guidance in Boosting Opportunities for All: Policy Brief’ (July 2025) <https://img1.wsimg.com/blobby/go/2e9e2b71-fb98-45b9-bf68-875b169d5ac5/downloads/672103fc-1052-435a-bb73-f979d8af2815/Schools%20policy%20brief%20July%202025%20FINAL.pdf?ver=1753719949938> accessed 15 October 2025. [117] Harry Farmer, ‘The Dilemmas of Delegation: An Analysis of Policy Challenges Posed by Advanced AI Assistants and Natural-Language AI Agents’ (Ada Lovelace Institute) <https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/report/dilemmas-of-delegation/> accessed 12 December 2025. [118] Jessica Hunt and others, ‘Effective Careers Interventions for Disadvantaged Young People: Evidence Review’ (The Careers & Enterprise Company, 2021) <https://www.careersandenterprise.co.uk/media/3ogdxqu1/bit67-cec-report_v3.pdf> accessed 15 December 2025. [119] David Bibby and others, ‘Post-16 Pathways to Employment for Lower Attaining Pupils: Are They Working?’ (Nuffield Foundation, 2024) <https://www.nuffieldfoundation.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Post-16-pathways-to-employment-for-lower-attaining-pupils-are-they-working.pdf> accessed 15 December 2025. [120] James Robson and others, ‘Comparing Policies, Participation and Inequalities across UK Post-16 Education and Training Landscapes’ (SKOPE, Education Policy Institute, 2024) <https://www.nuffieldfoundation.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/UK-Nations-post-16-Report-1-FINAL.pdf> accessed 15 December 2025. [121] Catherine Dilnot, Lindsey Macmillan and Claire Tyler, ‘Inequalities in Access to Professional Occupations’ (2025) CEPEO Working Paper No 25-01 <https://repec-cepeo.ucl.ac.uk/cepeow/cepeowp25-01r1.pdf> accessed 15 December 2025. [122] Esraa Abdelhalim and others, ‘A Framework of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Safeguards for Chatbots’ (2024) 67 Business Horizons 487 <https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0007681324000296> accessed 2 December 2025. [123] Technology Vision, ‘Human by Design: How AI Unleashes the next level of Human Potential’ (2024) <https://www.accenture.com/content/dam/accenture/final/accenture-com/document-2/Accenture-Tech-Vision-2024.pdf#zoom=40 > accessed 2 December 2025. [124] Joshua Halstead and others, ‘Motivating Futures: Channelling Intrinsic and Internalised Motivation for Young People from Low-Income Backgrounds to Thrive in a Rapidly Changing World of Work’ (Institute for the Future of Work, 2025) <https://www.ifow.org/publications/motivating-futures> accessed 2 December 2025. [125] The Behavioural Insights Team, ‘Pathways to Success: Increasing Online Careers Advice Engagement for Disadvantaged Young People’ (Social Mobility Commission 2021) Research Report <https://socialmobility.independent-commission.uk/app/uploads/2023/08/For_Publish_-_Pathway_to_sucess.docx__1_.pdf> accessed 2 December 2025. [126] Sam Rickman, ‘Evaluating Gender Bias in Large Language Models in Long-Term Care’ (2025) 25 BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making <https://link.springer.com/article/10.1186/s12911-025-03118-0> accessed 8 January 2026. [127] Lily Wielar and Jon Andrews, ‘Exploring Multi-Academy Trust Approaches to Artificial Intelligence’ (2026) <https://epi.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2026/01/AI_in_MATs_Jan26_FV.pdf> accessed 27 January 2026. [128] Department for Business & Trade, ‘The Evaluation of the M365 Copilot Pilot in the Department for Business and Trade’ (2025) <https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/68adbe409e1cebdd2c96a19d/dbt-microsoft-365-copilot-evaluation.pdf> accessed 27 January 2026. [129] Khurram Hanif, ‘AI “Slop” Is Everywhere — And Now It Is Merriam Webster’s 2025 Word Of The Year’ ( allaboutai , 16 December 2025) <https://www.allaboutai.com/ai-news/ai-slop-is-everywhere-and-now-its-2025-word-of-the-year/> accessed 18 December 2025. [130] Institute of Student Employers, ‘Student Recruitment Survey 2024’ (2024) <https://ise.org.uk/knowledge/insights/410/record_graduate_job_applications> accessed 28 November 2025. [131] ‘AI Coach’ (Springpod) <https://legal.springpod.com/ai-coach> accessed 28 January 2026. [132] Anais Galdin and Jesse Silbert, ‘Making Talk Cheap: Generative AI and Labor Market Signaling’ (arXiv, 11 November 2025) <https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.08785> accessed 2 December 2025. [133] ‘A Bot Named Winnie’ (Jisc, 17 September 2024) <https://www.jisc.ac.uk/member-stories/a-bot-named-winnie> accessed 10 November 2025. [134] Department for Science, Innovation and Technology, ‘AI Helpers Could Coach People into Careers and Help Them Move Home’ (16 August 2025) <https://www.gov.uk/government/news/ai-helpers-could-coach-people-into-careers-and-help-them-move-home> accessed 10 November 2025. [135] Nuffield Foundation, ‘Grown up? Journeys to Adulthood: Putting Young People’s Experiences at the Heart of Research and Policy’ <https://www.nuffieldfoundation.org/research/our-programmes/grown-up> accessed 12 November 2025. [136] Prospects Luminate, ‘Early Careers Survey’ (2025) <https://graduatemarkettrends.cdn.prismic.io/graduatemarkettrends/aDb6SidWJ-7kSn7u_early-careers-survey-2025.pdf> accessed 13 November 2025. [137] Marianne Wilson, ‘Human-Centred Approach to Chatbot Design’ <https://www.thecdi.net/getmedia/258713c6-dffa-43bd-9cb8-2b16b3614cfc/Marianne-Wilson-Parallel-Session-2.pdf> accessed 28 October 2025. [138] Nithya Sambasivan and Rajesh Veeraraghavan, ‘The Deskilling of Domain Expertise in AI Development’ (2022) <https://dl.acm.org/doi/epdf/10.1145/3491102.3517578> accessed 28 January 2026. [139] CDI, ‘Career Development Institute Code of Ethics’ (2024) <https://www.thecdi.net/CDI/media/Write/COE/Code-of-Ethics-2024.pdf> accessed 9 October 2025. [140] Marc Watkins, ‘AI Awareness Starts with Time’ ( Substack , 18 July 2025) <https://marcwatkins.substack.com/p/ai-awareness-starts-with-time> accessed 4 November 2025. [141] Matt Wemyss, ‘AI Literacy: What Is It Really?’ (2025) <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jCbmt6eg9iM> accessed 4 November 2025. [142] Michael Larbalestier, ‘AI and Careers Work’ (Career Development Institute) <https://www.thecdi.net/CDI/media/Write/Resource%20library/AI-and-Careers-Work-CDI-Background-Paper-2025-04.pdf?ext=.pdf> accessed 11 February 2026. [143] Sue Attewell, ‘Student Perceptions of AI 2025’ (2025) <https://www.jisc.ac.uk/reports/student-perceptions-of-ai-2025> accessed 14 November 2025. [144] Nisreen Ameen, ‘AI Skills for the UK Workforce’ (Skills England, 2025) <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-skills-for-the-uk-workforce/report-overview> accessed 4 November 2025. [145] Luke Bocock, Michael Scott and Jude Hillary, ‘Skills Imperative 2035: Creating a System of Lifelong Learning to Provide the Essential Skills for Tomorrow’s Workforce’ (NFER, 2025) <https://www.nfer.ac.uk/media/4ulc0syg/skills_imperative_2035_final_report.pdf> accessed 19 December 2025. [146] Skills Development Scotland, ‘Career Management Skills Explained’ <https://www.skillsdevelopmentscotland.co.uk/what-we-do/scotlands-career-service/career-management-skills-explained> accessed 4 December 2025. [147] Catherine Dilnot, Lindsey Macmillan and Claire Tyler, ‘Inequalities in Access to Professional Occupations’ (2025) CEPEO Working Paper No 25-01 <https://repec-cepeo.ucl.ac.uk/cepeow/cepeowp25-01r1.pdf> accessed 15 December 2025. [148] Everything ICT, ‘Buyers Guide and FAQs: The ICT Procurement Framework for Education’ <https://everythingict.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/09/20240229-EICT-EDUCATION-BROCHURE-1.pdf> accessed 18 November 2025. [149] Department for Education, ‘College Financial Handbook 2025’ (24 October 2025) <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/college-financial-handbook/college-financial-handbook-2025-effective-from-1-august#part-2-main-financial-requirements> accessed 18 November 2025. [150] Jisc, ‘Reshaping Buying in Education with Joint Procurement’ (12 September 2025) <https://www.jisc.ac.uk/news/all/reshaping-buying-in-education-with-joint-procurement> accessed 4 December 2025. [151] Department for Education, ‘Generative AI: Product Safety Expectations (Guidance)’ (22 January 2025) <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/generative-ai-product-safety-expectations/generative-ai-product-safety-expectations> accessed 18 November 2025. [152] Department for Education, ‘Generative AI: Product Safety Standards’ <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/generative-ai-product-safety-standards/generative-ai-product-safety-standards> accessed 28 January 2026. [153] Digital Futures Commission and 5Rights Foundation, ‘A Blueprint for Education Data: Realising Children’s Best Interests in Digitised Education’ (2023) <https://eprints.lse.ac.uk/119737/1/A_Blueprint_for_Education_Data_FINAL_Online.pdf> accessed 18 November 2025. [154] ‘Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) in Education’ < https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/generative-artificial-intelligence-in-education/generative-artificial-intelligence-ai-in-education > accessed 4 November 2025. [155] ‘General Data Protection Regulation’ (Information Commissioner’s Office) <https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/data-protection-and-the-eu/data-protection-and-the-eu-in-detail/the-uk-gdpr/> accessed 18 November 2025. [156] ‘Data Protection Act 2018’ (UK Government, 2018) <https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2018/12/contents> accessed 18 November 2025. [157] ‘Equality Act 2010’ (UK Government, 2010) <https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2010/15/contents> accessed 18 November 2025. [158] Department for Education, ‘Keeping Children Safe in Education 2025: Statutory Guidance for Schools and Colleges’ (September 2025) <https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/68add931969253904d155860/Keeping_children_safe_in_education_from_1_September_2025.pdf> accessed 18 November 2025. [159] ‘Age Appropriate Design Code’ (Information Commissioner’s Office, 2020) <https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/uk-gdpr-guidance-and-resources/childrens-information/childrens-code-guidance-and-resources/age-appropriate-design-a-code-of-practice-for-online-services/> accessed 18 November 2025. [160] ‘Guidance on AI and Data Protection’ (Information Commissioner’s Office, 2023) <https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/uk-gdpr-guidance-and-resources/artificial-intelligence/guidance-on-ai-and-data-protection/> accessed 18 November 2025. [161] Government Digital Service and Department for Science, Innovation and Technology, ‘Guidelines and Best Practices for Making Government Datasets Ready for AI’ <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/making-government-datasets-ready-for-ai/guidelines-and-best-practices-for-making-government-datasets-ready-for-ai#ai-ready-data-action-plan> accessed 18 November 2025. [162] Nuffield Foundation, ‘Trialling an Assessment Protocol for LLM-Powered Careers Advice’ <https://www.nuffieldfoundation.org/project/trialling-an-assessment-protocol-for-llm-powered-careers-advice> accessed 4 December 2025. [163] Chartered College of Teaching, ‘Edtech Evidence Board Project’ <https://chartered.college/edtech-evidence-board-project/> accessed 4 December 2025. [164] Department for Education, ‘Approaches to Developing the education Technology (EdTech) Impact Testbed: Scoping Report’ (2025) <https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/69396067cfacd5e888491d13/approaches-to-developing-the-education-techology-edtech-impact-testbed-scoping-report.pdf> accessed 19 December 2025. [165] Department for Education, ‘Education Secretary Speech at Bett UK Conference’ <https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/education-secretary-speech-at-bett-uk-conference> accessed 27 January 2026. Authors Emily Tanner Renate Samson Related content Report A learning curve? Renate Samson , Kruakae Pothong A Iandscape review of AI and education in the UK 30 January 2025 AI bias Biometric technologies ... Social and Economic Policy Transparency
